The Joys of Walking

Re “That Walk Was Awesome,” by Gretchen Reynolds (Phys Ed, Science Times, Oct. 6):

I started a walking program at the beginning of the lockdown, gradually building up to two one-hour walks a day. I’ve lost 20 pounds, but weight loss was not my primary goal. I walk because I’m fortunate enough to live in a beautiful and fairly rural section of New England, and the “small wonders” mentioned in the column are countless.

I encounter few other human beings (though many squirrels), so my risk for Covid-19 infection is minimal. And although I’m certainly not a misanthrope, I find that these natural glories are best appreciated solo. You notice more, and have more time for introspection, when conversation is left out of the equation. (And to eliminate distractions, I carry a bare-bones flip phone, not a smartphone.)

I’m not as obsessive a walking enthusiast as Henry David Thoreau, who routinely took four-hour daily walks, but I certainly now understand why the ritual meant so much to him.

David English
Acton, Mass.

Creativity in Prison, Against the Odds
Image
Gilberto Rivera&rsquo;s &ldquo;An Institutional Nightmare&rdquo; (2012), made from a federal prison uniform, commissary papers, floor wax, newspaper and acrylic paint.
Gilberto Rivera’s “An Institutional Nightmare” (2012), made from a federal prison uniform, commissary papers, floor wax, newspaper and acrylic paint.Credit...Karsten Moran for The New York Times

To the Editor:

Re “Stirring Creations From Behind Bars” (Critic’s Pick, Weekend Arts, Sept. 25):

It’s hard to imagine what talent is stifled behind prison bars. The creative urge bursts forth even under these discouraging conditions: confinement with no traditional artist’s materials.

One inmate used odds and ends salvaged from trash to create “images from his working-class childhood.” What opportunity for rehab and what talent is wasted! As I see it, this is a crime.

Phyllis Bogen
Englewood, N.J.

Baseball doesn’t need this kind of ‘joy'

The San Diego Padres' Fernando Tatis Jr. reacts after hitting a three-run home run during the sixth inning of Game 2 of a National League wild-card baseball series against the St. Louis Cardinals on Oct. 1 in San Diego.
The San Diego Padres' Fernando Tatis Jr. reacts after hitting a three-run home run during the sixth inning of Game 2 of a National League wild-card baseball series against the St. Louis Cardinals on Oct. 1 in San Diego. 

In his Oct. 7 Sports article “A flipping joy to watch,” Dave Sheinin glorified San Diego Padres shortstop Fernando Tatis Jr. as “a force of nature who plays the game with such obvious joy and unfettered emotion that he is almost single-handedly rewriting baseball’s ancient and cryptic unwritten rules.”

In August, against the Texas Rangers, Mr. Tatis was joyful enough to inflate a seven-run lead in the eighth inning with a grand slam on a 3-0 count, then rub it in with a bat flip. Mr. Sheinin says that’s bringing joy back to baseball, and his analysis was a celebration of our trash culture of egoism, vanity and self-glorification. He is happy to relegate baseball’s “old guard” and “unwritten rules police,” as well as the rescue of old values, which I say include the elegance, grace and compassion of good sportsmanship.

Mr. Sheinin, instead, prefers bat-flipping, posing, self-congratulation, running up the score and gloating, and has celebrated this Trumpian disease for years. It’s what he calls making baseball fun again.

In 2011, he was recognized for his Post hagiography of the hair-flipping hot dog Bryce Harper. “Trust us,” gushed Mr. Sheinin. “You’re about to fall . . . for the Nationals’ newest star. . . . It is going to be silly, giddy, sloppy, head-over-heels love.” Gaak, maybe for you. Thank God Mr. Harper took his self-absorption, umpire-dissing and perpetual scowl to Philadelphia, and the Nats rode their old-school team spirit to a World Series championship, free from his “fun” attitude.

John Hall, 
Washington

Is Nagorno-Karabakh disputed territory?

To the editor: Nagorno-Karabakh is not a disputed territory. It is an integral part of Azerbaijan, recognized as such by the international community. In the early 1990s, Armenia illegally invaded, occupied and ethnically cleansed 20% of Azerbaijan’s sovereign territory, including Nagorno-Karabakh and seven surrounding districts, and expelled 800,000 Azerbaijanis from their ancestral lands. (“In the South Caucasus, the threat of war,” editorial, Oct. 7)

The United Nations Security Council demanded that Armenian forces be withdrawn. Armenia refused to comply, and the U.N. did nothing to enforce its own resolutions. Thirty years and hundreds of peace negotiations later, Azerbaijan’s territories are still under Armenia’s illegal military occupation, and all those Azerbaijani civilians remain displaced.

Since Sept. 27, Armenia’s armed forces have been shelling Azerbaijani civilians. As a result, at least 41 Azerbaijani civilians, including three children, have been killed. In response, Azerbaijan is defending itself.

For peace to materialize, Armenia needs to withdraw its armed forces from Azerbaijan’s occupied territories, as demanded by the United Nations, which would allow Azerbaijanis forcibly displaced to return to their homes. Then, the Azerbaijani and Armenian communities of Nagorno-Karabakh will build together a peaceful and prosperous future together.

Armenians and Azerbaijanis have lived peacefully in Nagorno-Karabakh and other parts of Azerbaijan for many centuries. This is not a religious or an ethnic conflict.

Our call is for the U.S. and other powers to ensure respect for international law and convince Armenia to withdraw its forces from Azerbaijan’s occupied territories so that peace between our two nations can be restored.

Nasimi Aghayev, 
Los Angeles

Letter to the editor: People should not be allowed to feed fish in Breckenridge

Here is my unedited opinion: The Dredge building in Breckenridge has dog food dispensers on the bridge so people (tourists) can feed the trout. This should not be allowed. We as humans and as a town have already left our mark on this area of the wilderness. Trash in the Blue River is already an issue, and the fact that trout are consuming dog food (and cheap dog food at that) cannot be making matters better, especially for the critters that consume the trout. It is frowned upon to feed ducks and such, but we encourage feeding the wild trout? Shouldn’t they get the same respect we give moose, bear and other wildlife? It may not be a dire matter, but I do feel like it needs to be addressed.

Miranda Fritz
Breckenridge

Our ʻĀina Is in Jeopardy and Part of the Negative Climate Change

All farming needs to cease from poisoning the crops that are being grown and sprayed with Glyphosate/Round up.

I have been in contact with the biggest “grower” on the island from the get go of their “take over/purchase” of A&B land. The first time my conversation was questioning if their intentions were to grow pesticide free, Non-GMA crops. They assured me that they would not be. I was so happy and excited for Maui to be a showcase for the world.

I was lied to. The ʻāina is continuing to be in ruin. And the crops will not be fit for human consumption. I even asked if they would want their families to eat the crops. NO response.

What they are doing is horrific on the climate change. Farming is a BIG problem, due to tilling and poisons. There are more humane ways to farm and ALL farmers around the world need to choose to change.

How will future generations survive if our generation does not fight to bring Mother Earth back to before the 1930s, when the wrong choices began. Prayerfully you choose to help to make changes. Be prepared for tears AND hope.

I pray you take time to watch two educational documentaries (Life on Our Planet and Kiss the Ground) and learn why Mother Earth is in a dire state. (The opening scene from Kiss the Ground is from upcountry Keokea, Maui) — Jonell Elder, Makawao

 
Maui’s ReTree Hawaiʻi 2020 Helping To Combat Climate Change

I am writing to increase public awareness about Maui-based ReTree Hawaii 2020, and some of its associated events that include Media Challenges (photo contest ending November 1). There is more information on our Facebook (Retree Hawaii) and Instagram (@retreehawaii) sites and website: www.retree-hawaii.org.

ReTree Hawaii 2020 (La Ho’oulu Pae Moku) informs and educates the population of Hawaiʻi about the risks of climate change to Hawaiʻi and actions that can be taken to mitigate them, including planting at home and joining a statewide day of planting of trees and other plants on Oct. 30, 2020.

The climate of the Earth is worsening, and one of the easiest ways to counter this trend is to plant trees. Trees help by storing carbon, both physically and in the soil, and in the process have many other good effects as well. They provide shade, stabilize the soil, improve water quality and water table, purify and oxygenate the air and even produce food. They also beautify their surroundings!

So much of our ecosystem is being cleared and paved, making hotter and drier conditions for everyone, and raising the risk of wildfire. Erosion is causing our topsoil to run off into the waterways and oceans, which in turn smothers and damages the reefs and marine ecosystems. Planting prevents this loss as the leaves slow and disperse rain, making better absorption and less flooding, and the roots anchor the soil, filter the water and break down pollutants, making our streams cleaner and better aquatic habitat. More trees means better environment and better living!

Planting has built in Growth, in every sense possible. Our communities will continue to increasingly benefit over the years to maturity of this new urban forest, potentially in all the ways already mentioned above. Patterned on the original native forests that once covered all the islands, we are planning for pairings of plants that will gradually restore the range of habitat from ground to canopy.

More than 20 conservation groups are participating already, in what we hope will coalesce into a rejuvenated ecosystem. This can pave the way for recovery of the native insect, bird and fish populations that are dwindling rapidly. Biodiversity globally is under attack, and we can help address this locally. Since Hawaiʻi is primarily a tourist-centered economy, preserving and protecting the environment not only makes sense, it is crucial for our long term survival.

While it is easy to get disheartened with all the conflict and chaos around us, this is a chance to focus on constructive change. Stay positive, Maui! And remember to vote!! — Andrew Fox, Haliimaile

 
Some Packages Not Getting Delivered by USPS

Like many homes in Hawaiʻi, our home is up a driveway with a turnaround area at the top.  The Kihei post office has apparently instructed mail carriers to NOT drive up driveways to make package deliveries. Instead of bringing a Kaiser pharmacy package to the door one recent Sunday, the driver left an orange pickup notice.

A week later another notice was left for another skipped delivery.  I’m pretty sure that carrier was not our regular weekday carrier.  And then, the line at the Post Office in Kihei was unbelievable. USPS Kihei, deliver the mail! — Michael Nye, Kihei

Letters to the editor: good government, banner celebrating diversity

As previously reported, I will not be seeking a third full term as Sixth Ward Alderman, and I will not be a candidate for any other office in 2021. This is not a decision I have made lightly, but I believe it is the right decision – and the one that good government principles demand.

When I started this job, I would talk quite often with my friend Dan (Alderman Knight) and my friend Dave (Mayor Schmidt) and we would have great one-on-one conversations (usually over a beer) about what good government should look like in Park Ridge – and in other places as well. Thinking back on those conversations, we generally felt nobody should be alderman-for-life or mayor-for-life, even though we all thought we would be pretty good at it if we tried.

We viewed public service as a volunteer job – an honor and a privilege to be sure, but never a permanent placement. We believed that a healthy and vibrant democracy should never depend upon any one person holding one particular office. And we thought that getting more people involved in the act of democracy and the pursuit of good government was the best way to move forward.

Clearly, there is still plenty of work to do in Park Ridge government. The city needs to maintain focus on communicating clearly and honestly with residents. It needs to conduct its work as efficiently and effectively as possible, and use our time and money wisely. And the city must redouble its efforts to drive transparency and accountability.

I remain confident that the foundation built by recent City Councils will prove to be a strong one, and I know that the people of Park Ridge will not allow the green shoots of good government to wither. But make no mistake, it will take work – and I ask that you all support the next City Council in that important work in the years ahead. I know that’s what I’ll be doing.

Marc Mazzuca
Park Ridge

Support for inclusivity banners at high schools

Thank you so much for Jennifer Johnson’s very powerful and interesting article regarding the inclusivity banners! I am very much in favor of this innovative idea to bring people together. The creative thinking and inspiring words are so moving. I have lived in Park Ridge all of my life, and was fortunate enough to have attended Maine East High School and my mother had attended Maine High also. I am so proud of the students and teachers who created this! Thanks again for enlightening us to something so profound and wonderful happening in our own backyard! We are all always striving to be the “Better Angels of Ourselves.”

What a unique and powerful way to help accomplish this!

Judy Foster
Park Ridge

Letter to the Editor: Portland should vote to limit short-term rentals

Portland’s “tweaking” of short-term rental regulations has not ameliorated the negative impact on neighborhoods.

There are ten STRs within a block of our three-flat home. We endure noise in backyards and on decks after midnight. STR managers routinely ignore occupancy restrictions, creating on-street parking problems. We’ve called the fire department to report open fires on a wood porch, as well as an out-of-control pit fire at 3 a.m. Complaints to the management company responsible for problem buildings go unanswered and unheeded.

Since July, cars from “hot spot” states stay a day or two and then move on. Do STR “hosts” really ensure that visitors meet state COVID requirements? Why is a building of exclusively STRs not classified as a hotel?

Portland needs more housing on the peninsula. Supporting Question E will help preserve the residential character of our neighborhoods.

Elizabeth Miller
Portland

Max Rose is absolutely one of us (letter to the editor)

The following letter was written in response to the letter "Max Rose isn’t one of us,'' by David O’Donnell:

David O’Donnell’s rhetoric against Congressman Max Rose is disrespectful, and his comments feed into a dangerous, but inaccurate, narrative that Staten Island is xenophobic and racist.

“He is not one of us” is a phrase that may sound harmless — it’s the opposite. David’s rhetoric appeals, intentionally or not, to a toxic view that those who are not born in the borough are not just outsiders, but also not American.

David’s rhetoric harks back to the “Know Nothing” party of the 1850s, whose members used similar xenophobic rhetoric to harass new Irish, German and Italian immigrants.

We’ve heard similar language throughout history, with signs like “Irish need not apply.” Unless you are a descendent of the Lenape nation who originally inhabited Staten Island, today’s Staten Island residents, including David, are all “not one of them.”

Max is a patriot and an American, regardless of what zip code or country he was born in or where he attended high school or where he played sports.

A prosperous Staten Island welcomes people from across the world. Staten Island will always be a welcoming land to all people, continuing the tradition that makes Staten Island great.

Max Rose is one of us.

(Cesar Vargas is a Greenridge resident.)

Americans have a lot to learn from history (letter to the editor)

Regarding the letter to the editor entitled, “We learn from history and evolve:”

That Mr. Wheeler does not include enslaved people among “the great Americans who built this country, whether they owned slaves or not,” is the greatest evidence that he, and America, still have a long way to go in learning from history and evolving.

Getting real about race and racism does not have to be a partisan issue.

(Elizabeth Speck is a Stapleton resident.)

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Lincoln County doesn't need a new jail, Rounds a disgrace: Your Letters to the Editor for Oct. 18
Letters to the Editor
Rendering of the proposed Lincoln County Public Safety Center from a presentation prepared by Elevatus Architecture shown at the commission meeting on Oct. 6, 2020.

Letters to the Editor for October 18:
Lincoln County doesn't need a new jail

To my fellow Lincoln County residents: do you know that three out of five Lincoln County commissioners are trying to pass a $50 million jail to service 190 beds? The daily average of inmates is between 40-50, which is a far cry from the 190 beds that they think we need. Do you know that there is a lawsuit pending regarding the commission vote, that the judge ruled against the commission and it is not settled? What’s the big hurry…so if and when the lawsuit gets settler it’s too late, oh well? Do you know that this jail is to be built within 1.25 miles of an elementary school and in a neighborhood? How about are you sick of your taxes continuingly going up year after year after year?

This my friends is exactly what will happen and not only will they go up for the brick and mortar part but will substantially go up for the daily operations and maintenance which is not included in the $50 million proposal. They have every intention of enacting an opt out at your expense. The money has to come from somewhere so your property taxes it is! This jail is proposed to be built within the Tea City limits not Canton where the county seat sits. This new jail is not in the best interest for Lincoln County right now.

Please vote noon Lincoln County Jail. Let our voices be heard on November 3rd.

Carla Ochsner, Tea


That's not how testing works

I want to say that I have much respect for Gov. Noem and feel she has represented the interests of our state well. However when she says" cases are up because of more testing," she's politicizing the pandemic and willfully misleading South Dakotans. Either she is not as smart as I thought or she believes South Dakotans are dumb? It defied logical thinking every time I heard Pres. Trump say it, and it still does now. If she truly believes this, her staff should inform her on how testing actually works.

Glen Gary, Sioux Falls

Jorgensen for president

Which presidential candidate will get America out of foreign wars, create the best economy, and decrease the national debt? That would be Jo Jorgensen, the 63 year old Libertarian candidate. Even though she was the Libertarian Party Vice Presidential candidate in 1996, she has never held public office. She will be the fresh face Washington, D.C. needs to get America out of this mess.

Jo Jorgensen will get American troops out of foreign wars. She will have a strong military to defend American soil, not the interests of foreign governments. Jorgensen supports the Switzerland model of avoiding involvement in foreign wars but still having a strong military to defend America. Americans in Iowa don’t need to be paying for France’s protection. The French can defend themselves better than we can. America has 800 military bases in 70 countries. In 2019 the US military dropped 7,423 bombs in Afghanistan. That is the most bombs dropped in a single year since America invaded Afghanistan in 2001. Also in Afghanistan 2,447 service members lost their lives and 20,772 have been wounded since 2001. That is a terrible price to pay for little to no gain. Jo Jorgensen will get America out of foreign entanglements such as Afghanistan.

Jo Jorgensen will allow the economy to prosper. She will cut taxes. She will empower people to be truly free to spend their own money. She will cut regulations, so businesses can grow freely. Government has never spent your tax dollars efficiently or effectively. The American government needs to deregulate so that small businesses are able to grow without having to waste time going through red tape created by bureaucrats in D.C. With cutting taxes and deregulation, the economy Jo Jorgensen will help to create will be the best economy America has seen.

Lastly, Jo Jorgensen will decrease the national debt. She will decrease the military budget. Jo will veto any appropriations/spending bills that will increase spending. Jo will dismantle all nonessential federal agencies which number as many as 300. Because of America's outrageous debt every child at birth owes over $80,000. With less debt America can prosper, that is what Jo Jorgensen will do to the national debt.

Jo Jorgensen will work towards getting America out of foreign wars, help to create the best economy, and lower the national debt. The other candidates will say those things but they have never done them. Democrats and Republicans have been in power since the Civil War and have only increased control over your lives. Jo Jorgensen will give you back the power to decide what you want to do and how to do it. Vote Jo Jorgensen 2020.

Dayton Knobloch, Alvord, IA

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Lincoln County doesn't need a new jail, Rounds a disgrace: Your Letters to the Editor for Oct. 18
Letters to the Editor
Rendering of the proposed Lincoln County Public Safety Center from a presentation prepared by Elevatus Architecture shown at the commission meeting on Oct. 6, 2020.

Letters to the Editor for October 18:
Lincoln County doesn't need a new jail

To my fellow Lincoln County residents: do you know that three out of five Lincoln County commissioners are trying to pass a $50 million jail to service 190 beds? The daily average of inmates is between 40-50, which is a far cry from the 190 beds that they think we need. Do you know that there is a lawsuit pending regarding the commission vote, that the judge ruled against the commission and it is not settled? What’s the big hurry…so if and when the lawsuit gets settler it’s too late, oh well? Do you know that this jail is to be built within 1.25 miles of an elementary school and in a neighborhood? How about are you sick of your taxes continuingly going up year after year after year?

This my friends is exactly what will happen and not only will they go up for the brick and mortar part but will substantially go up for the daily operations and maintenance which is not included in the $50 million proposal. They have every intention of enacting an opt out at your expense. The money has to come from somewhere so your property taxes it is! This jail is proposed to be built within the Tea City limits not Canton where the county seat sits. This new jail is not in the best interest for Lincoln County right now.

Please vote noon Lincoln County Jail. Let our voices be heard on November 3rd.

Carla Ochsner, Tea
That's not how testing works

I want to say that I have much respect for Gov. Noem and feel she has represented the interests of our state well. However when she says" cases are up because of more testing," she's politicizing the pandemic and willfully misleading South Dakotans. Either she is not as smart as I thought or she believes South Dakotans are dumb? It defied logical thinking every time I heard Pres. Trump say it, and it still does now. If she truly believes this, her staff should inform her on how testing actually works.

Glen Gary, Sioux Falls
Jorgensen for president

Which presidential candidate will get America out of foreign wars, create the best economy, and decrease the national debt? That would be Jo Jorgensen, the 63 year old Libertarian candidate. Even though she was the Libertarian Party Vice Presidential candidate in 1996, she has never held public office. She will be the fresh face Washington, D.C. needs to get America out of this mess.

Jo Jorgensen will get American troops out of foreign wars. She will have a strong military to defend American soil, not the interests of foreign governments. Jorgensen supports the Switzerland model of avoiding involvement in foreign wars but still having a strong military to defend America. Americans in Iowa don’t need to be paying for France’s protection. The French can defend themselves better than we can. America has 800 military bases in 70 countries. In 2019 the US military dropped 7,423 bombs in Afghanistan. That is the most bombs dropped in a single year since America invaded Afghanistan in 2001. Also in Afghanistan 2,447 service members lost their lives and 20,772 have been wounded since 2001. That is a terrible price to pay for little to no gain. Jo Jorgensen will get America out of foreign entanglements such as Afghanistan.

Jo Jorgensen will allow the economy to prosper. She will cut taxes. She will empower people to be truly free to spend their own money. She will cut regulations, so businesses can grow freely. Government has never spent your tax dollars efficiently or effectively. The American government needs to deregulate so that small businesses are able to grow without having to waste time going through red tape created by bureaucrats in D.C. With cutting taxes and deregulation, the economy Jo Jorgensen will help to create will be the best economy America has seen.

Lastly, Jo Jorgensen will decrease the national debt. She will decrease the military budget. Jo will veto any appropriations/spending bills that will increase spending. Jo will dismantle all nonessential federal agencies which number as many as 300. Because of America's outrageous debt every child at birth owes over $80,000. With less debt America can prosper, that is what Jo Jorgensen will do to the national debt.

Jo Jorgensen will work towards getting America out of foreign wars, help to create the best economy, and lower the national debt. The other candidates will say those things but they have never done them. Democrats and Republicans have been in power since the Civil War and have only increased control over your lives. Jo Jorgensen will give you back the power to decide what you want to do and how to do it. Vote Jo Jorgensen 2020.

Dayton Knobloch, Alvord, IA
Rounds, GOP Senate a disgrace

Mike Rounds is taking South Dakota voters for granted! He hasn’t even bothered to use television advertising that I have observed to this point. It really sad that a Republican candidate for high office doesn’t even have to bother with campaigning for his seat in the senate.

The senate GOP has abandoned the public, democracy and all sense of honor and decency. They have made it clear they don't care if millions are forced to work in life threatening conditions, die of disease, are murdered by our own military, or starve in the latest mass unemployment event that has become a recurring theme under their control. The real purpose of all these right wing judges is to guarantee a subservient population with no standing against moneyed interests in the courts. Another year and that's where we will be.

Attention GOP Senators: General Mattis had seen and heard enough to call Trump out for his lack of maturity and not having a lick of sense. Now the GOP Senators are still cowering in the corner and None of them look to have guts to make a peep. What a disgrace to the institution and the Constitution. These are supposed to be leaders who allow a tweeting idiot to Control them. This is beyond any logic as they have the power of the Senate. McConnell is obviously too busy piling up money and Graham is still in the closet. The others have excuses that should qualify all of them to be removed from office. The GOP is lost and these people are too.

How embarrassing that the USA looks like a banana republic to the rest of the world and they are still too blind to see it themselves. What a Disgrace the US Senate is! Rounds will just slide into being re-elected without any real effort expended. What a sorry situation.

David Anderson, Sioux Falls

Storm saviors

We just survived another storm with no power. When thanking essential workers, we have missed two hugely important teams — National Grid and their peers — some from as far away as Canada. I must include all tree removal services.  Unlike other essential workers, we may not see these teams working diligently.

Being without power is exasperating and out of our control. We all wait by candle light and count the minutes. We cheer when the power is restored. We all then go back to our lives.

We owe a huge “thank you” to every person on those teams. They respond quickly to every outage or downed tree. They work in horrible weather.

I watched Walnut Tree Removal Service remove a gigantic tree from a neighbor’s yard. When I looked out, I saw an orange-clad person hanging higher than three stories and supervising the removal of this tree. A huge “claw” carried the tree over a pool, porch, driveway and dropped it in the street. In a flash, the crew chopped it up and placed the pieces into the wood chipper. One worker was singing as he worked. They cleaned the roadway and were gone!

Give a loud shout out to these professionals. Thank you!

— Patricia Wheeler, Hanson
Verify ballots

My wife and I requested mail-in voting packets for the upcoming general election. We completed the ballot and returned them on 10/2.

On 10/16, we received another set of ballots. Knowing we had previously submitted our completed ballots, we thought the new ballots were sent in error and prepared to shred them. That was until I checked the Secretary of State’s website and noticed both our ballots were rejected! No reason is provided, however there is notice that on 10/14, new ballots were mailed.

I strongly urge each person who used mail-in ballot selection to verify your ballot’s status on the Secretary of State’s website to make sure your vote is accepted.

We are currently awaiting word from our town’s administrator on why the ballots were rejected so we don’t make the same mistake.

— Brian Howland, Foxboro
Biden’s past

Joe Biden sold his vice presidency to foreign nations in order to enrich himself and his family. The evidence of this is overwhelming, even including a video of him bragging about quid pro quo with the Ukraine. Overall there were millions, even billions of dollars involved.

This was a case of “in office” treason.

The very corrupt media is hiding, covering this up. With a mountain of evidence, not one single question was asked at the ABC Town Hall Meeting with Biden.

— Al DiLascia, Chicopee
Unions step up

I would like to recognize and acknowledge the courage of the police unions in the towns of Duxbury, Hanson and Pembroke for their support for Tatyana Semyrog in her fight to represent the citizens of the aforementioned towns. These exceptional officers understand the importance of electing officials who will support law enforcement and listen to them when important issues that directly impact their ability to perform their public safety duties arise. Sadly our current state representative thought there was no need to conduct a public hearing on the issue of police reform.

Police reform is a serious issue and the public, all of the public, including police should be at the table where all stakeholders can participate.

— Al Goslin, retired BPD, Duxbury



Legislation needed to create voter information pamphlet

On Friday, Dr. Don Claeys expressed his disappointment that Hawaii has no voter information pamphlet in a letter to the editor. The League of Women Voters of Hawaii County (LWVHC) shares his frustration. For 20 years, the league has sought legislation that would implement such a pamphlet. The league is a nonpartisan organization that works to increase understanding of public policy issues and to influence public policy through education and advocacy.

While the county did post the ballot language, summaries, and fiscal impact statements of the proposed charter amendments on their website, voters often find the official wording a challenge. Other than names on the ballot, the county has no candidate information on its site.

Years ago, the League of Women Voters of Hawaii County stepped in to fill this breach. VOTE411 provides both candidate information and information on issues, including pros and cons on the charter amendments. It is the only place where voters can find thoughtful, unbiased information on Hawaii County’s ballot. You can find VOTE411 on the LWVHC’s website at https://my.lwv.org/hawaii/hawaii-county.

Unfortunately, the League of Women Voters of Hawaii County does not have much of an advertising budget, and along with a few ads, the league has relied on word-of-mouth to spread the word about VOTE411.

As for a voter pamphlet, the league will continue to work for its passage at both the local and the state levels. If you see the need for such a pamphlet, please join us in our legislative efforts.

Rosemarie Muller

President, League of Women Voters of Hawaii County

We are people, not cattle

I traveled to Oahu on Oct. 14. As a disabled resident of the Big Island, I am subject to medical procedures on Oahu. Upon my return, I was exhausted and in pain. As I disembarked the plane, without notification or warning, my fellow passengers and I were herded like cattle to a cordoned off area with the police surrounding the perimeter so that no one could escape. I soon learned that we were being held there to fill out quarantine information.

There was chaos, employees ran around with their iPads collecting information from the passengers. They collected partial information from one person, then ran to another person and back and forth between about four people at once. They were obviously untrained and ill-prepared to do the job.

I emphasize there was no social distancing set up increasing our chances to catch COVID-19. I received a medical release after being held there for over an hour. I was so shaken that it was difficult to make my two-hour trek home. Mayor Kim changes the “rules of travel” so often the residents can’t keep up. My message to the mayor is to stop violating our civil rights. We are people, not cattle.

Rene Vetter

Naalehu

West Ada

I retired from the Meridian/West Ada School District in 2014 after 32 years of teaching 4th through 8th grades. I’ve virtually attended or watched the videos of each of the recent West Ada School Board meetings. I’m sorry for the teachers who spoke last Tuesday night and I’m sorry for the Board members who are in over their heads. I’m anything but sympathetic to the administration who continue to cloak the truth of COVID-19 numbers in excuses.

The placaters at the district office began returning full classrooms of students one week at a time with the youngest children first. I believe their reason was to provide babysitting for parents and take the heat off themselves with little regard to safety.

I keep coming back to the fact that never in any of the course work I took was it intimated that my position in society would be that of a babysitter. My job was to help build successful citizens to take their places in society as adults. I believe that can be done virtually and I’m pleased to see the online hours including actual instruction during “home” days when half of the children are safely back in the classroom.

Is this the “me, me” generation of parents or what? They chose to have their children. Society offers to educate them, but their ultimate care is up to their families.

I think teachers should never accept being placed in the position of glorified babysitters. I also believe that teachers should stand together for the good of their students and their profession.

Cynthia Betz, Nampa

Trump

I admit it. I’m a registered Republican, and today, I voted against party lines.

I’m a retired registered nurse, and I cannot in good conscience vote for Donald Trump. He has defied the best doctors and advisers on COVID-19. That includes Dr. Anthony Fauci, a wise and knowledgeable man. Today, he blasted Dr. Fauci, the best doctor to get us through this horrible pandemic. Trump is ignorant on how to stop and slow down the transmission of the disease. I hope more Republicans listen and vote for someone, anyone but Trump. We can get through this, sooner than later.

Joan Skoro, Boise

Trump

When reading the ‘Undecideds torn’ article in Sunday’s paper (8A, Oct. 19), I was amazed at the thinking of the American people! Quotes from the “undecided”... ‘Support President Trump’s policies, and fear business will be gutted if Biden is elected’, but doesn’t like Trump’s personality! ‘Democrat whose policies they cannot stomach or an incumbent whose personality revolts them’. How stupid to put your life on the line because of a few (lots) of clueless comments! I am sure that most of the time, President Trump does not think before he speaks, and his Twitter comments get on everyone’s nerves. But just look what the man has done for our county! A booming economy before the pandemic hit, unemployment at a record low, tighter work requirements for food stamps, working hard to bring businesses back the U.S., and continuing to bring our soldiers home! Come on people, if you don’t like President Trump’s personality, change the channel or put the paper down! Your own personal dislike for the man and denying a vote for him and the Republican Party, will change your life…and not for the better. Vote for Republican President Donald Trump to keep American strong.

Dianna Trembly, Boise

Candidate forums provide critical information

I am honored that the Greater Woodland Park Chamber of Commerce has asked me to moderate elective office candidate forums over the past few years. These forums provide a critical source of information about individuals seeking office at the local level. I take my job as moderator seriously knowing that this public presentation is the first and only time voters are exposed to the candidates vying for elected offices in Woodland Park, Teller County and the 4th Judicial District. While we are all exposed to the barrage of signage, mailers and media advertising during election season, candid public forums where candidates can verbalize their views and positions on issues important to voters is the best way to understand the values of our fellow citizens who wish to serve the community in an elected office.

On Oct. 7, I moderated a forum in the Woodland Park City Council Chambers for three individuals running to fill a vacancy on the Woodland Park City Council. I am thankful to all three candidates — Catherine Nakai, Don Dezellem and Stephanie Alfieri — for seeking office. All three are longtime residents of the City and have witnessed some amazing growth and change in Woodland Park in their many years here. All three responded to the questions and issues I presented to them on Wednesday night with clarity and thoughtfulness. I know this public “grilling” is not easy or even comfortable as I have been there myself. Yet, I believe Catherine, Don and Stephanie did a great job and I hope readers will review the recording of the event on the Chamber’s website to judge for themselves.

I advised all candidates that there would be no right or wrong answers to the questions I asked of them. I anticipated that each candidate would be respond with candid and truthful answers. There is no dishonor in saying “I don’t know,” but then go on to make the promise to study that issue for the future if, in fact, it is an issue the voters care about. For the most part, all candidates did this.

One question, however, did not elicit a truthful response. Namely, Ms. Alfieri, though articulate and unruffled, responded to a question concerning her recent dismissal from the Board of the Woodland Park Main Street organization with an untruth and denial that was not worthy of her previous responses.

I do my homework before the forums I moderate. I check campaign Facebook accounts and recent media reports. As part of my due diligence, I reviewed Zoom recordings from the May meeting that prompted Ms. Alfieri’s dismissal from the Main Street Board. After reviewing the unbiased facts, Ms. Alfieri, as well as two other board members, clearly violated the by-laws of the organization and the tenants of Colorado’s open meeting laws. Their removal from the board for their actions was appropriate and necessary — although one of those members resigned before being removed by a unanimous board vote.

I expected to hear Ms. Alfieri acknowledge her transgression, promise not to do it again if elected. She did not. Instead, she declared she was proud of her actions and went on to misrepresent the facts concerning the violations. Frankly, the issue Ms. Alfieri felt was important enough to violate State law and organization rules for, is not as relevant as her subsequent behavior. The issue is she chose to break the rules and now shows no remorse. Her actions jeopardized the Main Street organization’s existence and standing with the City and State and demonstrated a disregard for law and order — all to promote her personal agenda.

The action Ms. Alfieri took while a member of the Main Street Board was wrong, but perhaps committed without an understanding of why it was wrong. However, denial and perpetuating untruths about her actions are not acceptable nor indicative of real concern for the community — only special interests. I cannot endorse this individual for City Council or any other elected or appointed office.

Carrol Harvey, former WP Planning Commission Chairman, WP City Councilman and Mayor Pro-Tem

Woodland Park

Endorsement for Catherine Nakai

If you are among the vast majority who supported and voted for one of us in the last city election in April of this year, please consider Catherine Nakai for your vote in the current municipal election for City Council.

Catherine is the right person at the right time for Woodland Park City Council. Her approach is sensible and reasonable in discussing the real issues, which will positively promote a healthy deliberative process. She is a volunteer of impeccable integrity, strength and the courage to stand strong for her principles and for the best interests of the residents of our community. She brings no preconceived agenda or personal bias—only her desire to serve the people of Woodland Park. Her calm demeaner and civility will be a breath of fresh air in council chambers.

Therefore, once again, whether you are among the 65% who voted for one of us in April 2020 or not, please join us in voting for Catherine Nakai for city council. Our wonderful city will be in good and caring hands.

Kellie Case

Dar Naccarato

Noel Sawyer

Woodland Park

Vote Nakai for WP City Council

In this upcoming election we need to make sure we select the candidate for Woodland Park City Council that will help preserve the Woodland Park that we love and that will help guide us into the future that we desire. That candidate is Catherine Nakai.

Ms. Nakai has lived in Colorado for 42 years and has been a citizen of the city of Woodland Park for 19 years. She knows Woodland Park! Catherine is a well-respected member of the City’s Board of Adjustment, helping guide our City decision makers while earning the admiration of citizens. She also volunteered to work with the Planning Commission on a unique project and just finished that year-long effort where she gained the respect of the City staff. Ms. Nakai wanted to learn more about our City’s governance so she enrolled in and graduated from the City of Woodland Park’s Citizens Academy earlier this year. It was during this experience that she developed a high regard for the City’s professional staff.

Ms. Nakai and I worked on some tough issues in our City that would challenge most relationships. The key to our discussions was that we always treated each other with great respect. Respectful discussion seems to be lacking at all levels of government. Catherine will help achieve and maintain civil dialogue as a member of our City Council. She is an excellent listener, clear thinker, and a respectful speaker.

Ms. Nakai wants to make sure that your City government continues to provide the high level of service to which the citizens are accustomed to. Great service in a timely manner sets Woodland Park apart from other cities.

It is without reservation that I encourage you to vote for Catherine Nakai for Woodland Park City Council.

David Buttery

Woodland Park

Vote Alfieri for WP City Council

Your vote is very important this election as the City of Woodland Park has a city council candidate who is running to balance the budget, manage expenses and represent the business owners and citizens of Woodland Park. Stephanie Alfieri is being endorsed by many Woodland Park business owners, citizens, and several current and former city council members. Her background in financial management will help to manage expenses so that the tax money you pay is used to benefit you and the community.

As a longtime area resident and former Main Street Program Manager, I have had the pleasure of working with Alfieri while she served as a volunteer to help bring improvements to Woodland Park. She is professional, hard working and dedicated to her hometown.

Recently, since declaring that she is running for city council, Stephanie has been the target of attacks by individuals that appear to have their own personal agendas. Their aggressive behavior toward this candidate leads one to believe that Stephanie Alfieri must be doing something right, standing for that which is right! Alfieri will stop the City of Woodland Park from being taken advantage of by greedy individuals. She recently demonstrated her commitment to, and her knowledge of, City issues during the candidate forum. Throughout the forum Stephanie illustrated that she is by far the most capable and knowledgeable candidate. I encourage you to watch the recording of the forum at http://city-woodlandpark/387/Councilmember-Candidates

Please vote for Stephanie Alfieri. She is honest and true to Woodland Park citizens and business owners.

Darlene Jensen

Woodland Park

Give Dezellem his due

Regarding the upcoming Woodland Park City Council election, it is helpful to understand why an election is necessary to fill one seat, when an election just took place in April. In that contest, a new mayor was elected with 776 votes and true to his word, mayoral candidate and sitting councilperson Noel Sawyer having finished third in a field of four, graciously kept his campaign promise and resigned his council seat.

Three new council members were elected as well, Rusty Neal with 1,448 votes, Robert Zuluaga with 1,100 and Jim Pfaff with 1,062. Don Dezellem came in a close fourth with 1,005 — 229 votes more than were cast for the new mayor. You would think that the sitting council could respect the will of the voters and come to an agreement in the best interests of their constituents and exercise their ability to appoint Don as the replacement member to fill the vacant council seat. Instead, the council became factionalized with an identifiable three-to-three battle line.

These two rival factions then argued in favor of having yet another election, and each side has propagated their own candidate in the hope of solidifying a majority on council. These two candidates have collected support from rival special interests in the community and have offered little of substance regarding their qualifications to represent their constituents or why their decision-making would be superior to their competition. The overwhelming methodology in their campaigns has been to pepper the cityscape with signage, and have their surrogates cast aspersions on one another in the paper and on social media. One perceived “community leader” who is vested in one of the two factions gaining an irreversible majority on council, spoke with Don and pressured him to withdraw from the race.

Understanding this, wouldn’t it be better to elect a candidate who owes no allegiance to either side? Dezellem has been an active member of our community for decades, he barely missed winning an available council seat in April, and can be trusted to force both of the existing factions on council to make their case to earn his tiebreaking vote. His allegiance will be to the community. Don is smart, deliberative and focused on doing what is right for both the present and future of the city he calls home. If you voted for Don in April, please do so again. If you didn’t, please consider supporting him now.

We have no way of calibrating what will happen if one faction or the other gains an iron-fisted hold on council if either of Don’s opponents win. With many issues looming large, particularly the replacement of our turn-tail city manager, crushing debt and a large contingent of the city’s workforce still furloughed, having a calming influence on future decision-making is essential. We can trust Don to research and understand the ramifications of the decisions put before him and to stand firm on his votes, based not on special interest influences, but on sound principles.

Please reject the rivalries and make your voice heard by voting for Don Dezellem.

Dave Paul

Woodland Park

Endorsement for Stephanie Alfieri

Recent disturbing trends in some outside advocacy involved in the Nov. 3 election for the open City Council seat for Woodland Park have motivated me to end my intended neutral silence, which was in contrast to a few fellow council members who have been fervently active in supporting another candidate to join their uncompromising voting bloc.

The same group of people who attacked me with slanders and libels for election cycles in the spring of 2018 and 2020 are conspiring against Stephanie Alfieri with their wrath and venom for this coming election in an attempt to tarnish another good citizen in a like fashion. This is the same group that attacked this change advocate (me) who would not be swayed by their elitist, good-old-boys, self-interested ways of running our town into their mold of puzzling motives contrary to the general good of all citizens.

You elected me Mayor of Woodland Park by a 50% margin because you saw through their mischaracterizations and recognized a candidate who would do right by you in office. I hope you likewise reject their contemptible goal to ruin an honorable candidate once again. Alfieri is a young private sector professional of high quality and a lifelong advocate of the public good in her behavior and demonstrable track record of knowledgeable, volunteer, public service as thoroughly exhibited in the recent Candidate Forum. I have personally and thoroughly analyzed public recordings of a recently sensationalized Main Street Board incident and found that allegations have been magnified beyond reality. I found her behavior professional and completely mischaracterized by this same elitist group.

Those that state their ideals of “compromise” and “go-along-to-get-along” actually only desire everyone to align to their uncompromising positions, not a higher standard of the “good of the people.” True compromise in line with maintaining principles is an admirable goal, which we should all subscribe to achieve as part of a team for your community benefit.

We should always examine these malicious purveyors that support a candidate to ponder the potential debts of advocacy if elected, even in our town. When irrational and slanderous personal attacks are levied against good people for no apparent reason other than to diminish their reputation, my instinct is to push back with my vote against such dishonorable strategies. My guess is that most of you are similarly good people who disavow this horrid behavior of politics of personal destruction. It has crept into our former community of courtesy and honor which are seemingly minority values in our current society of uncontrollable misinformation. My hope is that we somehow return to a civil society without the lies and character assassinations that are prevalent even in our paradise of a mountain western town of Woodland Park. Alfieri is an honorable person of high character who has no hidden motives and is seeking your support in this coming election in contrast to those shameful advocates of self-interest who seek to slander and libel her character.

Mayor Val Carr

Woodland Park

Elect Nakai to WP City Council

Catherine Nakai purchased her Woodland Park home in 2001, and for 19 years has been active in our community, currently as a volunteer on our Board of Adjustment. She has the professional experience and the relevant knowledge to excel as a member of our City Council. More importantly, she has the temperament, the discipline, and the ethics to maintain the high standards of conduct we expect of our elected officials.

Her role thus far in our small town politics has shielded her from the discord that has kept this council seat vacant since April. And her calm demeanor will offset, rather than add to, the frequent strife that can arise when disparate interests clash in the pursuit of incompatible goals. She owes no allegiance to hidden agendas and existing factions. She will make informed, not influenced, decisions on our behalf.

Catherine was appointed to the Board of Adjustment by our city council. But our city council could not achieve a consensus to appoint someone for this important vacancy, so now we voters get to choose for ourselves. I am confident we will make the right choice.

Please join me and so many of your neighbors in electing Catherine Nakai to serve our whole community, with no strings attached.

Steve Randolph, Mayor Emeritus

Woodland Park

Yes on 113: What National Popular Vote is and isn’t

A “Yes” vote on Colorado Proposition 113 ratifies National Popular Vote for Colorado. What National Popular Vote does is count all votes before awarding electors, replacing the winner-take-all rule.

National Popular Vote does not change the Electoral College in any way. It changes Colorado’s rule over electors, which is granted by the Constitution. States have changed how electors are appointed over time, and as the nation evolves the state legislature may change again to even better methods.

Voting trivia: The Constitution does not guarantee citizen’s vote for President. Guess what year the Colorado citizens didn’t get to vote!

Replacing the current winner-take-all rule with National Popular Vote is in every Colorado voter’s interest, because Colorado isn’t a swing state this year or many years:

National Popular Vote will drive successful parties to campaign in all states, not just a few swing states.

It will give red votes a voice in this now blue-trending state. With current winner-take-all, those Colorado voters don’t count beyond state lines.

Colorado voters won’t be paying for election year pork to the handful of swing states. This year it’s roads for Arizona, Florida, North Carolina and Pennsylvania, diary for Wisconsin, cruise ships and Puerto Rican aid for Florida, and airport money for Pennsylvania and Ohio.

It will boost Colorado’s influence! It will reduce California’s outsized influence by about 40%, by counting its split between the Red and Blue before awarding Electors.

National Popular Vote has been a non-partisan effort. In 2016 there were 153 Republican and 162 Democrat sponsoring legislators.

It is not a referendum between past election winners and losers. The real winner is better representation because every voter will matter.

Ralph Burns

Unincorporated Boulder County

Vote Yes on Amendment B

Fiscal conservatives and small business leaders across Colorado are supporting Amendment B, the ballot measure that repeals the Gallagher Amendment and freezes property tax rates for everyone.

Any serious supporter of the free enterprise system should support Amendment B. As the head of the National Federation of Business has said, without Amendment B, a real number of small businesses around Colorado will be pushed over the edge to insolvency.

First, Amendment B freezes property tax rates for everyone and requires a vote of the people before property tax rates can be increased. Second, B stops $300 million in automatic local property taxes that would otherwise take effect next year. If the Gallagher Amendment is kept on the books, next year local businesses, including farms and ranches, would pay property taxes 5-times higher than everyone else. Third, B repeals Gallagher’s 40-year-old formulas that drain funding from firefighters, police, and vital local services. B is supported by the Colorado Fire Chiefs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the Colorado Association of School Boards and the Rural Schools Coalition, because B stops irrational shifts in funding.

Colorado’s leading conservatives support Amendment B, including former GOP Senator Hank Brown, former GOP Attorney General John Suthers, former GOP Secretary of State Wayne Williams, the Farm Bureau, and chambers of commerce in Colorado’s most conservative communities, like Colorado Springs, Greeley, Loveland and Grand Junction. Vote for small business and conservative reform of a broken property tax law. Vote Yes on Amendment B.

Rep. Matt Soper (R-Delta)

Delta

Proposition 115 will harm

The ballot initiative Proposition 115 to ban abortions after 22 weeks offers a simplistic state imposed policy to a medically and ethically complex situation. Proposition 115 as written has a number of distortions and flaws.

The main exception to the ban is “to save the life of the pregnant woman” but does not include threats to the woman’s health. No exception for the diabetic whose eyesight and kidney function is steadily deteriorating? No exception for the woman with lupus with threats of stroke and kidney damage? No exception for the teenager incested by her uncle?

Of major importance, no exception for fetal anomalies, some fixable, some resulting in stillbirth, or neonatal suffering and death? The Centers for Disease Control reports that approximately 120,000 pregnancies in the U.S. each year are affected by fetal anomalies. Many anomalies are not detected until ultrasound at 21-24 weeks or later. The medical Journal Obstetrics and Gynecology of May 24, 2013 states that brain anomalies are often detected after the 21-24 week anatomy scan. The journal issue of Feb. 26, 2009 followed 77 pregnant women who received a diagnosis of highly probable perinatal death. The majority were diagnosed after 22 weeks.

The Center for Disease Control notes that in 2016 just 1.2% of abortions in the United States took place after 21 weeks. The decision to terminate a previously planned and wanted pregnancy can be heart wrenching for the mother. The decision is best left up to the pregnant mother in consultation with her physician, rather than to a political ban imposed by the state, which will do harm.

Vote NO on Proposition 115.

Scott Johnson MD

Loveland

Re: Proposition 113

Winston Churchill once said, “You can always count on Americans to do the right thing — after they’ve tried everything else.” We’ve tried electing our president a certain way and it doesn’t work very well. Let’s do the right thing and support Proposition 113, the National Popular Vote.

The National Popular Vote Interstate Compact is meant to insure that the presidential candidate with the most votes nationwide will be elected president. Once the agreement between states consists of 270 electoral votes or greater, states joining the compact agree to award their electoral votes to the candidate who wins the national popular vote (regardless of the vote in their state). Therefore, the National Popular Vote will make sure every voter matters and every vote for president counts equally.

Our president is the country's most powerful elected official, responsible for the selection of lifetime appointees to the Supreme Court. He or she should be elected by the majority of voters. The National Popular Vote agreement will insure that this happens.

Vote YES on Proposition 113 if you believe one person always equals one vote and the presidential candidate who earns the most votes deserves to win the election.

Make our Founding Fathers proud.

Elaine Carr

Woodland Park

Richard Valenty: Mayoral ballot issue: Don’t fix what’s not broken

U.S. News & World Report just ranked Boulder number one on its “Best Places to Live” list, and that’s without a directly elected mayor. Since we can’t do better than first, let’s vote “no” on Ballot Measure 2E – and here’s why.

There’s no guarantee that the mayor would have any experience in city government. Anyone meeting a few qualifications could run, and since elections can be marketing and money-driven popularity contests, anyone could win.

This might be alright for regular City Council seats, since new members can grow on the job. But the mayor would have to run council meetings and agendas right away, plus handle duties of a council member. It’s not the right position for a rookie.

Today, the council elects the mayor, and members can vote based on perceived ability to do the job. This is not unusual in governance.

At the Colorado State Capitol (and other capitols), legislators elect leadership internally, including important positions like speaker of the House of Representatives and Senate president. It works fine for the state and in Boulder because leaders are chosen ready to move into bigger roles.

Boulder’s mayor is not an executive position like a president, getting only one non-weighted vote out of nine on official business. There’s no veto power, and 2E doesn’t change powers or responsibilities. An elected mayor might not even be able to move policy, without the votes on the council.

Switching to Ranked Choice Voting might not produce an undeniable “voice of the people” result. If “first” choices are close, Boulder might get a new mayor based on second or third choices, possibly guesswork. Plus, the county clerk has said the county’s election system can’t handle RCV right now.

Vote “no” on 2E, since the potential tangible problems far outweigh unproven benefits.

Richard Valenty

Boulder

Loren Pahlke: Mayoral ballot issue: Status quo is just fine

Boulder’s Ballot Measure 2E does not deserve your vote. Choosing who to select for the City Council is difficult enough without the additional challenge of deciding the relative worth of every candidate for mayor.

Here are the basics. The City Council comprises nine members, and we elect five of them every two years (one member gets a two-year term). Each new council selects a council member as mayor, to run meetings and represent the city.

If the members later determine that the mayor is not carrying out the responsibilities of the office, they can, with a two-thirds vote, remove the mayor from office immediately. As a consequence, the mayor in our current system has a dual responsibility: to the city that elected him as a council member, and to the council who elected him as mayor.

Issue 2E tasks you with selecting the mayor, leaving council with no voice in the matter. If the mayor in the 2E system fails in the role, the only recourse is a recall election among the public, a procedure that is likely to take at least four months.

Because 2E implements “ranked choice voting,” the issue also expects you to rank each of the candidates for mayor. The bottom line to this way of voting is that the process of determining the outcome is opaque because the winner is calculated by an algorithm in a computer. The complexity of the system makes determining the result by hand nearly impossible.

We have a mayoral selection process that works well for us, and for the council. We don’t need a hard-to-remove prima donna mayor in potential opposition to the council, and we don’t need a complicated voting system to replace the straightforward system that we have. Vote “no” on issue 2E.

Loren Pahlke

Boulder

Shirley Jin: Statewide ballot issues: Please vote ‘no’ on 116 and 117

Ballot issue 116, the state income tax rate reduction, and ballot issue 117, voter approval for certain new state enterprises, are both supported by the Koch-funded organization, Americans for Prosperity Colorado.

Proposition 116 would reduce the Colorado state income tax from 4.63 percent to 4.5 percent for individuals, estates, trusts, and domestic and foreign C corporations. The wealthiest Colorado taxpayers will, by far, receive the greatest benefit. Proposition 116 would reduce the state’s income and its ability to serve and meet the collective needs of the people.

Proposition 117 is essentially an extension of the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights in that it adds the requirement that new state enterprises must be voted on, as is the case with TABOR and new taxes. This will hamper the state Legislature’s ability to meet challenges and this is especially important in times of turmoil such as we are facing today.

Both ballot issues, 116 and 117, will weaken the government of the State of Colorado and not serve the best interests of the people.

Shirley Jin

Boulder

John Huyler: Senate race: Time to speak up

If you see something, say something. During a recent debate with John Hickenlooper, U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner certainly illustrated that he
can be a smooth talker. He claimed to always put Colorado’s  interests above national political calculus.

Yet he remains eerily silent as President Donald Trump’s rhetoric becomes more and more threatening to our national security. Sen. Gardner, if you see something, say something. Colorado is listening.

John Huyler

Boulder

Please vote Heidi, Hansen, and Haynie for HCSD

I have been a customer of the Humboldt Community Service District since 2013. The public works staff is great and came after hours to fix a burst water line that turned my street into a river in May. We have aging water and sewer infrastructure and need to plan for the future of existing neighborhoods including more PSPS events and climate change.

The HCSD board is largely composed of developers and real estate agents who have a history of annexing land, building the water and sewer infrastructure before subdividing and that is worrisome at best. The board rejected requests to change the 5 p.m. meeting time to 6 p.m. to increase ease of participation for the working public and has ignored citizen requests for all agendas and minutes to be available on the website. Most recently, they filled a vacancy in a 10 minute meeting with no public comment a mere month before the election. HCSD needs a board that serves the community by being accountable to the public, transparent, and committed to making sure our rates are invested in existing neighborhoods and not supplementing sprawl development. Vote Heidi Benzonelli, Michael Hansen, and David Haynie for HCSD.

Julie Ryan, Myrtletown

Liza Welsh would go above and beyond for Eureka

Liza Welsh has been and always will be a person of the highest integrity. I have known her for the past seven years, after a fateful encounter that involved an airplane crash, and I have seen her stand by her values and honesty. I have seen her fight for the rights of others for the entire seven years I have known her. When she was attending university in Oakland at Mills, she went before the City Council there in support of equity for small cannabis business owners. In her work with various music festivals, I saw her help organize workers and assist peers who had been taken advantage of by production companies. Recently, I see her working hard to protect the benefits and pay for her fellow county workers, including those in administration, law enforcement, and health and human services. She spent her early quarantine days this year diving head first into assembling, distributing, and helping with a project I started to provide an inexpensive supply chain for face shields for medical providers. Being just an engineer myself, I realized early on that I needed her help to ensure an equitable and broad distribution of the face shields. Working from home, I’ve seen more of how she deeply cares for the environment and also for the future for Humboldt’s economy. Liza would go above and beyond for the people of Eureka and would absolutely be the hardest worker that the City Council could hope to have.

Matt Stephenson, Eureka

Bible studies

Dear editor:

Mr. Cunningham, in his Oct. 18 letter, suggests that if I "would study a correctly printed Bible (KJV)," I would see that God instituted politics in mankind's affairs. I should like to remind him that several Bibles were translated into English long before the King James Version, the first authorized Bible to be used in English churches. To suggest that the KJV is the only correctly printed one is quite a stretch. He perhaps is not considering any of the modern translations correctly printed, either.

Wycliffe was the first Englishman who strived for an English translation and he was killed for doing so. Tyndale came later and did translate the New Testament. That was followed by the Geneva Bible, one that had commentary notes that were controversial at the time. King James was himself a translator, but he gathered various Biblical scholars to translate the entire Bible from the Hebrew and Greek, to become the first authorized Bible to be used in all of England's churches. Actually, the first printing in 1610 was found to have some printing errors so the official date became 1611.

As Mr. Cunningham knows, several translations have appeared since then, as well as some transliterations. My preference for its modern English phrasing is the New English Bible translation. Are these translations incorrectly printed? Surely, Mr. Cunningham is aware that the English language has changed in phraseology and meaning since Old English days.

Later in his letter, Mr. Cunningham states that I am partially correct about our forefathers not wanting a theocracy. How can one be partially correct? The facts about that matter are recorded in our United States history. I have never stated that those forefathers did not pray for God's direction. The great majority of those leaders were Christians, though some were Deists, believing in God but not accepting Jesus as a divine son.

I do agree that the forefathers were wanting to protect religion from being controlled by the state, thus creating the principle of separation of church and state. But I could never agree that God chooses both good and evil men as leaders, certainly not anyone as evil as Adolf Hitler.

John W. "Doc" Crawford

Hot Springs

Biden's Catholicism

Dear editor:

Joe Biden purports to be a Catholic. The Democratic platform supports abortion. Real Catholics believe in the right to life. We do not believe in abortion, which is a grievous sin, the taking of a human life. Remember the Holocaust? Millions of lives lost. Sound familiar? Millions have been lost to abortion. God forbid that Biden and "Catholic" Democratic members of Congress might be receiving communion in the Catholic Church. How hypocritical!

Valrie Catherine Wade

Hot Springs

GOP 'hypocrisy'

Dear editor:

The Christian Republican Pharisees constantly pointing the finger at those darn Democrats about murder and abortion. Who started all the wars from Korea to Vietnam to Iraq to Afghanistan? Republicans. Millions of human beings including our soldiers and our Marines have died. Who murdered them? Republicans.

KJV Revelation 21:8: "But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death."

That's all I got to say to these Christian Republican writers about their hypocrisy. May God have mercy on us.

Michael P. Lucas

Hot Springs

LOCATION, CONGESTION, GREED & BAD LOCATION

People move to Bend because of the lifestyle, ambiance, outdoor activities, to get away from congestion, and pollution. However, greed is impacting this.

People who work in Bend are having a hard time finding housing with landlords upping rents drastically. If a homeowner feels they aren't making enough in rent, they turn their homes into Vacation Rentals impacting once beautiful neighborhoods.

Homeownership for Bendites is fast becoming a distant dream. Developers are destroying open areas throwing up houses that most people in Bend cannot afford. It's sad because the reason people move to Bend is for the openness.

Congestion is unreal. Many streets are already parking lots. It's not unusual to have to sit through several cycles to get through some lights. The roads are already filled with potholes and ruts, which will get worse in winter.

The location is all wrong for four-year colleges. Who has ever heard of building a four-year college on ten acres, or building it on a pumice mine? Didn't they learn anything from the field sinking at Summit High School? Who will be paying to repair it when the buildings start sinking? Housing will be difficult and parking will be even worse. I doubt faculty, staff, and students will walk 3.5 miles into downtown Bend. I think a college student would be happier going a couple of hours away to a college where there would be the ambiance of a real campus that has housing, parking, and athletic fields.

People need to see that the quality of life is eroding. Congestion is getting worse every day. At this rate it won't be long before our beautiful blue sky will be a big brown cloud.

—Deedee, a concerned Bendite

IN REPLY TO "LESSONS FROM THE LAND" (10/14)

Outdoor school changed my life. I became a scientist and a teacher because of how outdoor school made the world real to me. Oregon needs aware and capable citizens to prosper and outdoor school is the best means to ensure this happens.

—Rex B.

IN REPLY TO "FIGHT FOR YOUR RIGHT TO PARTY" (9/30)

Regarding the riverside market controversy, as an outsider looking at it from a citywide policy perspective, consider that the "market" has operated illegally for several years. And where is our city—should they not have been enforcing our codes? And assessing a penalty for violations? Instead they are recommending a conditional use permit without even requiring a survey to see if legal parking requirements can be met! I guess in Bend it pays to ignore the code and then cozy up to staff when neighbors object to an illegal operation! It is clear this business does not belong in this neighborhood.

—Allan Bruckner

Trump: Republican’s demise

Trump is the persona of today’s Republican Party & looming demise. Mike Peifer, Lisa Baker, and Rosemary Brown have been silent as Trump’s chaos and divisive speech has significantly & adversely affected this nation and state. These state legislators are complicit in Trump’s failures, predictably eager to enable Trump’s inevitable litigation in the PA statehouse, attempting to suppress our votes! Say NO to Trump and this Republican Party. Vote them all out in 2020.

R. Scott Brown, Milford
What do you look for in a candidate?

Character counts. Honesty. Kindness. Loyalty. Respect. Compassion. Tolerance. Integrity. Modesty. These are traits I look for in a candidate. What traits do you look for? Which candidates best reflect those character traits you value? Embrace them, support them, and vote for them.

Joan Jeffers, Stroudsburg
What have we gained?

October 21st marked the ninth anniversary of the passing of 1972 losing Democratic Party Presidential candidate South Dakota Senator George McGovern who was ahead of his time in his race against Republican President Richard Nixon. McGovern's platform included ending the Vietnam War. It also called for spending the billions wasted on the war to rebuild America, along with saving lives by bringing the troops home. McGovern was too proud to emphasis his military experience as a decorated World War II bomber pilot.  Nixon attempted to portray him as soft on national defense. Since 2001, we have spent $6.4 trillion (Source: November 2019 report, Brown University Watson Institute of International and Public Affairs) between our involvement in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and Pakistan wars. There was also the loss of seven thousand American military along additional private military contractors employed to assist in the fighting. Thousands more suffer day to day with permanent physical injuries. Was it worth spending the dollars and lives?  What we have gotten in return?

Larry Penner, Great Neck, New York

Trump did not influence price of oil

Regarding David Rosen’s letter to the editor on Oct. 11 about Trump affecting oil prices: He would do well to study the history of the American petroleum industry. The discovery of oil in western Pennsylvania in 1859 is what started the American petroleum industry.

Kerosene, which is refined from oil, and used in lamps is what eventually lit the world. The price of oil in western Pennsylvania went from $10/BBL to 10cents/BBL 10 years later. Thus, the first boom-bust cycle.  Later on, discoveries in Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana kept prices down. Then came the massed- produced auto and more oil production. By the 1950s, gasoline was 25 cents/gallon and oil $3/BBL. The Saudis jacked the price in 1972 to 90 cents/gal, which set off more drilling. Then came the 1980s and crude oil went from $45/BBL to $10/BBL within two months. There again, boom-bust brought on by oversupply.

Then came fracturing and the U.S. was out producing the Saudis. Guess what? We had boom-bust. The thought that President Trump influenced the price of oil is laughable. It is always supply-demand. Oversupply, price goes down and people get laid off and some companies go under. Only a Democrat would think that Trump caused the oil price drop.

During COVID-19 (Wuhan virus), Trump did everything right. He shut down flights from China, then Europe in January 2020, while Dr. Anthony Fauci, CDC and Democrats said this virus was no problem.  Biden called Trump xenophobic. Trump was waiting for direction from CDC and epidemiologists. He received none until people started dying. Then the CDC, Dr. Fauci, et.al. started waking up to the fact that this Wuhan virus might be serious.

Tom Owens

MISD trustees didn’t care to listen

The MISD board of trustees on Wednesday voted 5 to 2 to change the name of one of the great high schools in Midland. They did ask us, but they did not care to listen. They made a committee, but they did not listen. They had their minds made up long before (Wednesday) night. Some board members had their minds made up 30 years ago.

I am from the class of 1965, which means that I was the first one to step foot into that brand new school in September 1961. My thoughts were not ever for one moment glad that it was an all-white school or that Robert E. Lee fought for slavery in the Civil War. It could have been named Midland High School North. We were 14- to 17-year-old kids in a brand-new school.

Legacy High School! What a stupid name!! What legacy is this high school starting with? A community split apart because a handful of people that want to destroy history and tear down statues because it offends them are guiding the other 94 percent of our society because their “feelings” are hurt?

OK, it’s done! But mark my word: If the MISD board asks for a bond election for $1 to $750,000, my answer will be absolutely no, not and never.

Ronald T. Bearden

School’s name pays tribute to nation’s history

As a graduate of Robert E Lee High School class of 1988, I was saddened to learn that MISD has chosen to re-name the schools. I no longer reside in Midland, so I learned of this two weeks ago.  It is unfortunate that people can’t seem to grasp the idea that a Robert E Lee High School, a Yale University or a Harvard University represent and pay tribute to part of this nation’s history. Notice, I said pay tribute to, and if you look up the definition of tribute it is an act, statement or gift that is intended to show gratitude, respect or admiration. The schools’ name being part of our history pays respect to history not some allegiance to the Confederacy.

Yale and Harvard universities’ names pay respect to a part of this nation’s history. There are now calls to re-name Yale because Elihu Yale was a slave trader. Harvard is receiving pressure to re-name dormitories that have been there since 1636 because some of the individuals the dorms are named after owned slaves. Renaming of all these institutions, including my alma mater, will do nothing to improve or lessen the political and social polarization that we see in this country today and in all likely hood will further the dissension.

I watched a news commentary about the potential re-naming of Robert E Lee high school in Baytown, where a resident said, “the children should not have to be reminded daily of legacy of the confederacy and slavery.” Are you kidding me? I attended Robert E Lee High School for four years, and not one day in that time did I or my peers ponder, have an allegiance to or against the Confederacy. We knew the name of the school was just a part of history just like Yale, Harvard and so many other fine institutions in this country.

Are we going to re-write history -- the good and the bad? If we don’t remember history and have a respect for history, we are doomed to repeat it.

Mark C. Woolsey

Trophy Club

MISD missed opportunity with school’s new name

My family has been in Midland County for generations. While currently a Texpat, I’ve followed the proposed name change of Lee High School with interest. As a part of the class of 1994, I received a fine education there from dedicated teachers. During my time as a student, the school began reckoning with its problematic appropriation of the Confederate flag and glorification of Dixie. I was heartened to hear of the strong school board vote in favor of a name change.

This school was built in 1961. Why continue to bear the name of a Virginian with scant connection to Texas, save to prop up a partial view of the past?

What a missed opportunity. Of the three final names proposed, only one followed the spirit of the vote. Embedding the name Lee within the new name is an affront to the intent of the proposed change. The school could bear the name of so many remarkable Texans. How about Barbara Jordan? Selena Quintanilla? Ann Richards? Laura Bush? Midge Erskine? Alvin Ailey? Willie Nelson? Sheryl Swoopes? Tom Ford? José Gregorio Esparza? Leonardo “Flaco” Jiménez? Terrence McNally? Lady Bird Johnson? José Antonio Navarro? Standup Texans, all.

Instead of naming the school with an eye to inspire and reflect its multi-ethnic and multi-lingual student body, the board opted to choose Legacy HS. Ima Hogg H.S. would have been better. The board wisely voted down the proposed Legacy of Educational Excellence (L.E.E.) given the clear legacy that name intended to reinforce. However, by retaining the rebel mascot, they have not fully disengaged themselves from the Confederate legacy. It is disingenuous to suggest that dressing the rebel up in revolutionary gear will make the mascot palatable. It will just be historically inaccurate; those seeking independence for the colonies were referred to as patriots and revolutionaries, not rebels. The board voted to play it safe, and in so doing, fully served no one.  Students and employees of MISD merit better than this.

The Rev. Jamie P. Washam

Providence, Rhode Island

Editor’s’ note: The following letters were submitted before the Midland ISD board met on Wednesday.

MISD board has its own agenda

I’m tired.

I’m tired of people not doing the jobs they were elected to do.

I’m tired of them ignoring the rights of the majority, for we are a democratic society.

I’m tired of people pushing their agendas on me. You see, nothing was wrong with our school name. It wasn’t discussed and no one cared until one person decided he was oppressed, and some other people jumped on the band wagon. We are happy to change the name to Midland Lee, as it has been known as for over 40 years, but you have your own agenda.

Why appoint a committee when you already made up your mind? Why not spend millions of dollars; after all, it’s not your money.  You will move on after we vote you out and your damage will be done. You will leave behind thousands of alumni with diplomas of a school that doesn’t exist anymore. You will kill the Lee brand and wipe the championships off the board. Kids who have wanted to attend Lee, like their brothers, sisters and parents, will have their hopes crushed.

I’m tired of seeing neighbor fighting against neighbor.

I’m also very tired of you changing the rules as you go.

Are you tired of the talking behind your back when you are trying to eat dinner at a restaurant? The glares, the whispers, the tension? Are you tired of the emails and the constant reminder that you are neither representing the majority nor acting in the best fiduciary interest of Midland?

You see, once you do this, once you rename the school to something the majority doesn’t want, you can’t go back.

Your legacy is miserable and everlasting and will follow your career wherever you go.

Are you as tired as I am? Please end this division and name the school Midland Lee with the Rebels as the mascot and the colors as maroon, gray and white. It’s the least expensive option and it is what the majority wants.

Robin Hodges Swartz

Midland Lee is more than buildings’ name

There are those who hate Robert E. Lee and what it means to them. They are right; that name has got to go. The problem is haters are never appeased no matter how much you do.

There are those who love Midland Lee High School and cherish what it means to them. Their school’s name is not something to abandon. A letter by T.J. Glover points out that Lee’s 60-year legacy of excellence is a tribute to its students, not to its namesake. Midland Lee is more than just the name of the buildings.

Lee was named after Robert E. I was named after my grandfather. Neither were appropriate, but neither define us in what we have become. My name now stands for who I am and not who he was. Likewise, Midland Lee High School has earned the right to its name apart from Robert E. No one seriously links the school to the general except they share that name.

No matter what the school board decides, I predict that most of the town will continue referring to the school as Lee. It would make more sense to make the de facto name the official name — and cheaper, too. Ironically, the surest way to preserve Robert E. in connection with the school is to choose any name other than Lee. Otherwise the phrase “...formerly Robert E. Lee High School” must be appended whenever referring to the school.

Simple changes are best: CAF became rebranded as CAF and most everyone is happy with it.

Midway, Texas became Midland, Texas because the original name had to change.

Rick Davis wrote: “In any event, it is time to put this name-change decision behind us once and for all.”  I agree. But abandoning Lee altogether will hurt so many so much that it will inevitably just perpetuate it.

On the subject of names, there are others in town with the same name as mine. Please don’t harass them if you disagree with me -- which is a perfect allegory for the Lee vs. Lee name association.

John Ham

Rainey will bring fresh ideas to board

Having retired from Midland College after 34 years of teaching there, I have an understanding of the relationship between the board of trustees and the college as a whole.

The board has a vested interest in the college, now and in the future, and must make informed decisions on appropriate matters. Shaun Rainey will be a proactive board member. Both he and his wife have taught at Midland College, so he knows the roles of administration, faculty, staff and students. He has a solid academic background and understands the role of the community college in the broader aspect of higher education.

He will bring fresh ideas and enthusiasm to the Midland College Board of Trustees. I support Shaun Rainey for Midland College Board of Trustees.

Robert W. Peetz, Cedar Park

Rainey qualified to lead MC into the future

I enthusiastically endorse Mr. Shaun Rainey for Midland College Board of Trustees Place 7. I am so pleased Shaun has decided to run for this position. Let me explain why he deserves your vote.

Shaun is uniquely qualified to serve on the Board of Trustees, given his broad and varied experience in and around Midland College. Having seen the college from many perspectives, including as a teacher, Shaun is now ready and well-qualified to lead MC into the future.

Shaun and I practice law together, so I have seen his keen analytical mind, his firm but kind demeanor, his quick wit and his selfless devotion to improving Midland. Having attended a community college for two years myself, I have first-hand knowledge of the important difference a college like MC can make in the lives of individuals, in the workforce and in the community.

I hope you will join me in voting for Shaun Rainey for Place 7 on the Midland College Board of Trustees. We need his thoughtful leadership.

Kristi Hyatt Brumfield

Rainey understands role of community college

Shaun Rainey will provide leadership and a community spirit to the Midland College Board. Shaun has seen first-hand how education can make a difference in an individual’s life as well as in the life of a city. We need a community college that understands how improving the prospects of the residents of Midland also improves the prospects of the city itself.
I have known Shaun since he moved to Midland after graduating from law school almost 10 years ago. While pursuing his education, Shaun never lost touch with his roots or his core values of hard work and common sense. I have come to both trust and respect Shaun and know that he is here in Midland to stay.

I agree with Shaun that the future of both Midland and Midland College are tied together and that the role of a community college is to serve both the student and the community. If you believe that Midland College should produce the sort of graduate that Midland needs, I urge you to vote for Shaun.

W. Clark Lea

Booker is concerned with betterment of children

Michael Booker is a man of integrity and possesses a heart as big as Texas. He is an active part of our church body, caring for congregants in a licensed and armed security guard team we call Sheepdogs. His heart is also given to mentoring kids as a football coach in our local sports clubs.

Michael is also a veteran. This act of bravery speaks volumes of every person who voluntarily puts their life on the line for the safety and well-being of others. It comes as no surprise that Michael would choose to sacrifice his time in political office.

I have been a minister for over 45 years. I know how to recognize genuine people. Michael Booker is a candidate who possesses a quiet posture, but his attributes of loving others speak with thunderous voice. Michael’s only interest is the betterment of every child in MISD; they matter to him. The Bible teaches that where a person’s treasure is, there, his heart will be also. Michael Bookers’ treasure is the children of Midland. Red, yellow, black, or white, they are all precious to Michael’s heart.

Please consider Michael Booker as District 1 school board representative.

Pastor Roy L. Smith

Booker will ensure kids get best possible education

In November, we have an opportunity to decide who becomes school board trustee for District 1. Tex-Con Management Inc. is endorsing Michael Booker, in order to help build public support, improve our public education system and lead our superintendent.

He will consider the value of quality education and the safety of our children. Through this economic recession, he will pay attention to adequate staffing levels, sound facilities and budgetary challenges. He will develop positive, teamwork-driven and fruitful relationships with fellow board members, the superintendent and the public. He will guide us into a new era of racial justice and educational equality for all children. As a veteran, Mr. Booker has proved his passion to service. His interaction and support of area youth programs and his example to his own children make him the best candidate for District 1. We give our full support to Michael Booker.

We know Mr. Booker will serve with positive focus, adhere to a high code of ethics and execute the decisions of the board with respect and fairness. He will do his best to listen to issues, while executing a high level of teamwork to ensure our children receive the best education possible.

Luis Esquivel

Davis is passionate about involvement with MISD 

It is with great pleasure that I write this recommendation for Rachel Davis for MISD school board trustee for District 2. I have been friends with Rachel and her family for almost five years now, and in the time that I have known her, she has been nothing but a pillar to our community.

Rachel demonstrates the character and qualities that you would look for in a leader for your community. She puts her all in everything she does -- through all her work with the local school district to help better our schools, to her charity work through the Midland Shriner’s Club and most importantly, to her family. She strives for the best for her children’s school by being on the PTA and is highly active in every school function. She’s passionate about her work in the school district by putting on school fundraisers and has even created an after-school basketball program for the children at her kid’s school. I know she carries these characteristics in everything she does. She has my vote of confidence to be a local leader and has the passion to help her community strive.

Brian Griffin

Davis is reliable, responsible

I confirm that I know Rachel Davis. She has been my friend for almost 15 years and was a work colleague for three years.

Rachel is responsible, reliable and caring and would be an excellent candidate for this position. She is involved in the PTA, and she is also very passionate in volunteer work at Shriners Hospital. Rachel is also a strong leader. She works very hard to achieve any goal that is set before her.

I recommend my friend, Rachel, for this role. If you need more information, I will be happy to help. Please vote for Rachel Davis MISD School Board trustee for District 2.

Theresa Gill

Davis will push for good, positive change

I have known Rachel Davis personally for the better part of 20 years. She is loyal, hardworking and honest to a fault. I saw a young girl grow into a woman in that time, get married and start a family. Once her children became school age, it became apparent that Rachel developed a passion for making education the very best it can be. No one has worked harder or volunteered more time, blood, sweat and tears than her.

I was so happy to hear she will run for school board. Rest assured, if you elect Rachel Davis, your schools will have a tireless advocate who will push for and achieve, good, positive change. I could not give Ms. Davis a higher recommendation.

Please vote for Rachel Davis MISD School Board trustee for District 2.

Brian Clark

Vargas will stand up for Midland’s children

I met Stevie Vargas a few years ago when I had his son in my class. During this time, I have watched this dad with his children. The love and care between them are apparent in the glow that surrounds them.

Stevie Vargas is an active member of our community. He puts students first and shows care and respect.  My son was a 2020 graduate during the COVID-19 pandemic. A group was set up on Facebook called Adopt a High School Senior - Permian Basin area. Mr. Vargas and his family adopted my son through this program. The care they showed for my son made him feel better during a difficult end to his last year in high school. He is also helping with the “Jacket Drop Off” for local children.

Stevie Vargas will be a huge addition to the Midland Independent School District school board in the upcoming election in November. We need more citizens like Mr. Vargas standing up for our children.

Wendi Tucker

Board needs Joyner’s desire for excellency

The community of Midland is fortunate to have the energy of Katie Wallace Joyner, and I have been blessed by her friendship for over 20 years. In this time, I have watched her become the passionate and caring citizen that she is today.

From mentoring young people as a Young Life leader, to serving on the Memorial Hospital Forum, it is evident that she cares deeply for our community and wants the best for Midland. Katie is an involved parent, a problem-solver and has the leadership qualities that we need on the school board.

My favorite attribute about Katie is that she is convicted in her beliefs. She knows deep down what she stands for and remains committed until the end. I believe her desire for excellency, coupled with honesty and integrity, is exactly what our school board needs. Katie Wallace Joyner is brilliant and the right person to represent District 4 on the MISD school board.

Jenni Hord

Vargas can be voice MISD is missing

I am supporting Steve Vargas in his candidacy because I believe he is the best and easiest choice for change. I have worked with him as a peer and a supervisor, in the Department of Public Safety, where he exemplifies the upmost maturity and character of anyone I have encountered. His patient, willing-to-serve and level-headed approach has excelled his career, not only with the DPS, but the military, as well. He has a way with people, which is why he can be the voice MISD is missing.

Stevie has four children, three who attend Fannin Elementary. Two of his boys have special needs, requiring extra attention. He has tried numerous times to be the voice for children, without being heard. Now is the time for change. We need people like Stevie to step up and listen to concerns of parents, staff and community.

I know that his roles in the DPS, military, and experience with special needs make him a vital asset to the board. Not only does he know how to handle adversity, his patience dealing with the public/community shows his commitment to serving others. Let him serve the community once more, by electing him as school board trustee.

Sgt. Chris White

Vargas is dedicated to making serious changes

Steve Vargas will make an outstanding advocate for District 4. Steve has revealed he is concerned and dedicated to making some serious changes. He is genuine, level-headed and deeply committed to the children, parents, schools and faculty of MISD.

He has a long history of fighting for our country, putting his life on the line each day to make our community a better place, to now focusing his energy on our students, the future of Midland. Steve has been working hard to gather input from parents, teachers and an array of other community members about what they think is working and what is challenging in our schools.

My wife, Kasie, and I feel his concern for what is best for students is genuine and the need for change is sincerely welcomed. As a parent of three who attend MISD, I think he will be especially sensitive to the concerns of parents. In Steve’s long line of experience by working the front lines of our community, he has persevered in the ability to work with a wide variety of people. We need to have people on the school board who are responsive and sincere when dealing with students, parents and faculty.

Travis McCracken


Letter to the editor: New pedestrian bridge is a step backward

The current replacement pedestrian bridge’s design, stripped down but budget-gobbling, is seriously compromised.

Funding has not been secured for desired features (lighting, benches). Forget any fishing pier. Forget shade structures!

Perhaps we just need a new design? This is becoming clear to more Tulsans.

Meanwhile, the still-standing, railroad-converted bridge “was a brilliant solution” to the shade issue, among others.

Quoting from Ann Patton’s book “The Tulsa River,” Memphis architect Roy Harrover said, “Take out the braces and build the trail underneath the structure, so people...can walk out of the sun.” We are evidently moving backward.

Because of the 1917 bridge’s unique story, as well as its proven track record (since the 1970s) as a tried-and-true popular feature of the Tulsa River Parks trail system, it should not be discarded unless a legitimately superior, affordable replacement bridge is actually on the table. So far, this is not the case.

Someone told me that the old bridge could probably be disassembled, the supports rebuilt, and then reassembled with new timber. Would this save millions?

We need a serious study by an independent firm (one that has no financial interest in the study’s outcome).

Please, block the premature demolition of our time-tested, now-abandoned bridge. Research the question impartially. Do not settle for an unworthy successor. Replace it wisely or not at all.

Jonathan Pinkey, Tulsa

Nilsson Troy works across aisle

I urge you to vote for Caroline Nilsson Troy for the Idaho House. She is a strong supporter of public education and the University of Idaho. Her position on the JFAC Committee is key to obtaining funding. This helps to ensure funding for ag research and extension. She is a strong supporter of agriculture and natural resources. She works across the aisle and this approach has benefited her district.

Join me in voting for Caroline on Nov. 3 to ensure continued strong leadership in representing our district.

Tom Trail

Moscow

Lamar spreads positive energy

As a Moscow resident and voter, I am proudly casting my vote for Tom Lamar for Latah County commissioner. Tom’s credentials as a dedicated public servant and progressive leader of the Palouse have been well-documented over the past several decades, and he deserves our support.

Tom’s tireless involvement in the community through support of the local economy, participation in environmental issue resolution and the protection of human rights is truly an inspiration. He has been a member of the Moscow Chamber of Commerce for 27 years, a member of the Pullman Chamber of Commerce for 26 years, and an owner-member at the Moscow Food Co-Op for 36 years. Tom Lamar is our current Latah County commissioner, and also serves as the executive director of the Palouse-Clearwater Environmental Institute, where he has worked for three decades. All of these things clearly demonstrate Tom’s devotion to the Palouse and its residents, and his commitment to the vibe of Moscow.

Radiating positive energy and goodwill, Tom can often be found riding around town on his beloved bicycle, supporting local producers at the Moscow Farmers Market and attending political functions and activities. He is a wonderful example of the Moscow community, and he deserves our support. The next time you see Tom out and about, let him know that his hard work is appreciated and that he has your vote for Latah County commissioner in 2020.

Heather Rommens

Moscow

Madman carries the ‘football’

Even Trump supporters are aware that our president is often unhinged, vindictive and emotionally infantile. That’s not fake news. Trump as president is constantly accompanied by a military aide carrying a metal Zero Halliburton briefcase called the “football.” It contains the nuclear launch codes that can be the end for all of us. What responsible American would want this madman to remain in control of our destiny?

Richard Shafer

Pullman

Lamar serves all residents

I have known Tom Lamar for several years. During this time he has proven that he goes above and beyond for the residents of Latah County as he is always looking out for the betterment of the residents of the county.

He is an honest, trustworthy gentlemen who is willing to listen to the residents for new ideas and how the county can work for all of us. He has helped the senior population get through this pandemic. I urge you to vote for Tom Lamar to keep common sense in our local government while continuing to serve all the residents of Latah County.

Sandy Kilborn

Troy

Pullman deserves answers

On Oct. 15, the Whitman County Health Department released guidance indicating that it’s safe for elementary school students to begin in-person learning. A week before, on Oct. 8, the Pullman School District released a reopening plan. Following the health department’s announcement, the district released an email stating that the reopening plan would change, and that it was, and had been, ‘working closely with the health department.’ Given the district’s self-stated goal of decision-making transparency, the district and the health department should provide answers to two important questions.

First, if the district was working closely with the health department, then why did it release a plan with metrics that were going to be scrapped almost immediately? Is the district simply following the local health department’s guidance? A close working relationship would have prevented releasing a reopening plan with a shelf life of five working days. If the district was not “working closely with the health department,” then it calls into question the validity of other statements made by the district. For example, what does it mean when the district makes “data/science driven decisions,” or — more generally — when it “strives to be transparent?”

Second, and more importantly, what information became available to the district and the health department between Oct. 8 and Oct. 15 that prompted the aggressive shift toward reopening? What data was used to inform the first plan? What data is informing the current plan? With such wide disparity between the plans, it certainly cannot be the same data. But, the information that became available to the public during this period doesn’t support shifting to an aggressive reopening plan. Most notably, Pullman experienced three additional COVID-19-related deaths. It’s hard to make sense of the decisions made by the district and the health department given the information made available to the public.

Natalie Barnes

Pullman

Residents not what they seem

Today we see various signs of support for political parties, people within those parties, as well as various other types of propaganda supporting social justice issues, LGBTQ rights, feminism support and national pride (yes, the American flag for those who don’t view the flag as a symbol of pride). Whether I agree or disagree with these messages, flags or political support signs, that is a person’s right through freedom of speech to display them.

I do not have a right to steal them because I disagree with the message. This is what makes America great. Who am I to stop them from endorsing or supporting a specific candidate or displaying a particular sign or flag?

But the same is not true for some people in our community who disagree with my views, so they must steal my freedom of speech from my yard. For being an inclusive and tolerant city, this act of theft only shows that Moscow is only tolerant of people and views that don’t offend them. For those who must steal political signs from a person’s yard, are you upholding that person’s freedoms? Are you allowing them to exercise their rights as Americans and their freedom of speech? I see plenty of signs that I do not necessarily agree with around town, but I don’t go around stealing them because I don’t agree with them.

My oath to this country is to support and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. Bottom line, people of Moscow claim to be a tolerant city and open to differing views and political opinions, but in reality, only accept those views and opinions that line up with your views. Now I will have to replace my support signs with something bigger.

Jeremy Mutart

Moscow


Letter to the Editor: Acting childish

    13 hrs ago 

Facebook
Twitter

    Email

Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print

    Save

I have been on this earth a very long time and I have never seen anything like what we have been experiencing since 2016.

We had an election, Trump was voted into office and he should have had his time. If he wasn’t liked, he could be voted out of office.

That is the way it should go.

However, Democrats didn’t like that they lost, so they raised their heads like a roaring lion. They didn’t get their way, so childish behavior set in.

First the impeachment, fighting Trump on everything he tried to do, protests and riots causing material and physical damage and the burning of people’s businesses. Yes, I know Black Lives Matter was part of this, but it is all connected.

I firmly believe no matter if it was Trump or some other Republican who won, the Democrats would have acted the same. They have an agenda and we are supposed to abide by it.

Is this setting a precedence? Are all future elections going to be the same? Are Republicans wasting their time having a candidate?

Are people just supposed to let the Democrats have their say so? Why is it so hard for them to believe others have a right to vote into office the person they want?

— Ann Reed, Bakersfield

In fairness, it’s balance for imbalanced

It is with great pleasure that I commend The News-Enterprise for tremendous fairness in allowing viewpoints from all people to be printed in your opinion pages.

It is especially fair that you print letters from those who are obviously suffering from debilitating paranoia and also those who are chronically susceptible.

Richard K. Rogers

Elizabethtown

 LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Local elections have consequences

Larry Melton Odessa

Local elections are always interesting, sometimes exciting, and often eye-opening. The Letters to the Editor in the Odessa American this week were a great example of politics in Odessa. Having served 13 years as an elected member of the Odessa City Council, I recall earlier days when no one filed for office versus what we see today – contested races in the Mayoral race, Council-at-Large race, and Council races in District 1 and 2. Some of the letter writers included words of anger, charges of fake news, improper use of Republican Party endorsements and unwarranted issue of General Obligation Certificates.

I consider myself a Republican but not a “staunch” Republican (whatever that really means). I am disappointed at the actions of the Republican Party leadership for playing favorites by choosing one Republican candidate over another; I am disappointed at the Party leadership for charging for some yard signs and not others; I am disappointed at the cry to “drain the swamp” as we have some very knowledgeable and capable Council members; I am disappointed at the charge of one writer that there is a clear intent to spread misinformation and mistruths. The list could go on.

These are issues that need addressing but they are by no means the “real issues” facing Odessa – the uncertainties of Covid-19, the differences between the City of Odessa and Ector County, the increasing numbers of citizens needing assistance, the need to further diversify our economy, a deteriorating infra-structure, declining sales tax revenues, and again the list could go on and on. This massive list – with more to surface – requires each of us to select the right persons to lead our City.

So, with all of the conflicting issues and charges, what do we as City residents need to do? I can only answer this question for myself – I have visited with many of the candidates, listened to their “platforms”, and looked at their past and present involvements. I have prayed that God gives me the vision to make the right choice. Reviewing the past and current involvement of the candidates, I am supporting Dewey Bryant, Michael Shelton, Steve Thompson, Denise Swanner or David Turner. Call them the “good ole boys (and woman), but I would point out that these individuals are “the movers and shakers” of our community. They have given us time, resources, and talents to make Odessa a better place. I hope you will join me in ensuring we have strong leadership in the City Council by electing Dewey Bryant as Mayor, Michael Shelton as Councilman, District 1 Steve Thompson as Councilman, District 2 and Denise Swanner or David Turner as Councilman-at-Large. With these individuals joining, Detra White, Tom Sprawls, and Mari Willis, we will have an unbeatable team.

Letters to the Editor: Superstitions aside, will Dodger fans finally get World Series reward?

With the Dodgers down 3 games to 1 to the Braves, I tied a lodestone around my neck, poured black salt over the TV and placed chicken feet strategically around my room. Old wives' superstition? Worked for me!

Richard Dennison

Goleta

The Dodgers won the NLCS for these three reasons. Corey's bat, Mookie's glove and the "never say die attitude" of the whole team!

Wayne Kamiya

El Segundo

I am neither a Dodgers or Braves fan but no matter I was glued to the TV watching Game 7. I hope young fans will now realize what I’ve known for the last six decades — baseball is the greatest sport on Earth. Granted, we may remember a certain touchdown or a last minute three-pointer but baseball memories will stick in your mind forever. From Larsen’s perfecto to Mazeroski’s World Series winning homer to Fisk’s walk-off to Reggie’s three dingers to the limping Gibson’s fist pumping homer off Eck to Bellinger’s strut to first base to Mookie’s circus catches and to the memories in our future. Baseball was, is and always will be our National Pastime.

Richard Katz

Los Angeles

Congratulations to your photographer Robert Gauthier for that magnificent picture of Mookie Betts scaling the wall to save a Game 7 home run. With the smart, full-frame presentation that includes the Master Card logo, it looks like a creative collision between the Dodgers and Abstract Art: Ellsworth Kelly, meet Mookie Betts.

Paul Desruisseaux

Rancho Mission Viejo

The Dodgers may be in need of an overhaul if they can’t take this. They enjoyed a season full of weak opponents and when they come up against an unfamiliar opponent from the east they look stunned most of the time.

I used to think they were just too overpaid and coddled, not tough enough for the trenches, but now I think it might just be that some of these guys are misplaced. Maybe Kershaw would have better luck with his hometown Rangers, and as much as I admire him for the kind of man he is, I would understand.

William Bergmann

Hollywood


The war came! The republic encountered.
Two squares fight the vehemence. The
improbity fills the world.
The   of the alliance is
skillful. Kidnap the D the Speaker the
conduct.
The proper abruption alliance troops
tries.    Prosperous drive with the.
After the text crawl, the camera turns to show;
EXT. SPACE, ABOVE THE PLANET CORUSCANT
Day breaks on the planet Coruscant as a huge airship flies
above it. Two smaller airships fly by, doing some maneuvers
and eventually fly below the huge airship only to reveal a
tremendous battle blazing above the planet. Dozens, maybe
hundreds of huge airships and thousands of smaller ones
fire at each other.
We continue to follow the two small airships seen in the
beginning. The yellow one is piloted by
 
Target, teacher. Take aim at
directly the machine head of that
airship. Is an airship that
slowness crawl along.
  
Good, I have seen this is very
easy.
     Enemy mother airship.
A group of SLOWNESS ROBOTS take off to intercept the
attack.
     
My important Step Six.
4.
STEP SIX (V.O.)
Receive.
  
I are above at you four machine am
after death at me.
     Cockpit of an airship piloted by STEP SIX.
STEP SIX
General, I now is to fights the
appearance.
An airship squadron led by Step Six joins their wing.
 
Game time started.
  
Our dichotomy opens the combat.
The two airship squadrons engage each other. Explosions.
After the initial assault a group of slowness robots begins
to follow an airship piloted by PILOT CLONE TROOPER.
PILOT
He is in my behind.
 
My distance his half kilometer.
  
Not, let I to solve him.
The slowness robots destroy their enemy. A lone slowness
robot looks around and launches four missiles.
 
Notice the guided missile pull out
high!
The missiles fly by the two airships and turn around.
  
The guided missile can't beat the
inside mine.
 
Led to bounce back.
The guided missiles are locked to the two airships.
  
Like, reach the man, Good good good
let us counter-attacking.
Two missiles keep following    Tile's airship.
5.
 
You remain on standby I use the
backset equips.
  Gold makes two missiles hit each other by evasive
maneuvers.
    
(happy)
Two fix together.
Meanwhile    Tile still tries to shake off the two
missiles tailing him.
  
The disgusting thing came.
The missiles fly past him, explode and release a cluster of
AIRSHIP ROBOTS that latch onto    Tile's airship.
     
True vexed.
 
Is an airship robot.
The airship robots spring into action and begin to sabotage
   Tile's airship as they crawl.
  
R2, you careful point.
An airship robot rips R2's head off.
     
, God.
An airship robot's damaging the    Tile's airship's
wing.
     
Have to think that the way stops
them.
 
I can then the close quarter beats
them.
  
We must fly into the enemy's
commander airship finds.
  Gold blasts a few airship robots from    Tile's
airship and also accidentally hits its wing.
     
Good kind of.
  Gold follows    Tile closely.
6.
     
Do not beat, you can not help me
like this.
 
I agree, my method is not so good.
The airship robots further damage    Tile's airship, and
his cockpit windows are partially covered in haze.
  
Is really to bother.
  Gold flies closer and folds his airship's S-foils.
     
Do you fuck on I.
  Gold tries to crush some airship robots with his
wings, but doesn't succeed.
 
Move to the right side.
  
Not line so we two would be over.
You leave here. You can not help
mine.
 
I can of, teacher.
  Gold crushes a few airship robots with his airship's
wing, but the remaining one climbs onto his airship and
begins to threaten R2.
    
Beat it, R2.
R2 zaps the enemy robot.
    
Carefully.
  
Reach The Man beat it the inbetween eye.
Using this tactics, R2 manages to disable its opponent.
 
Good, you beat the inside.
  
Good kind of, R2.
The two airships are now free to head for their goal.
7.
 
The airship of the General in place
ahead.
  
(surprised)
You have and did not notice he
wanted to blockade.
 
Sorry teacher I walk first one
step.
  Gold disables the airship hangar's shield generator
with a couple of well-aimed blasts. An emergency blast door
begins to close.
  
, I feel far from good.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, HANGAR - CONTINUOUS
The hopeless situation warriors manage to land safely and
they engage SECURITY BATTLE ROBOTS in the hangar. R2
springs out from the airship.
  
R2, find the Speaker.
The combat ends shortly after this. R2 connects to a wall
socket and projects a photograph of the airship.
     
(pointing a part
of the photograph)
Speaker come out from here of. The
robot can search for with the
machine.
 
I think that I can then extrication
he to.
  
I feel that this is a trap.
 
Resemble the last time?
  
But we can will account and then
account.
The hopeless situation warriors take their leave. R2
attempts to follow.
 
R2, come back. I need you foolish
in ship.
8.
  
Take this, wait for the order.
   Tile gives R2 a telephone.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, BRIDGE
 , a menacing-looking half-human half-robot,
enters the bridge with his two BODYGUARD ROBOTS. He coughs
every now and then as he walks. The bridge is manned by
PILOT BATTLE ROBOTS and commanded by   DOFINE, a
Neimoidian.
 
After all out what matter.
 
Two persons entered the airship. We
want to hinder them.
 
Kill these two republics bodyguard.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, ELEVATOR CORRIDOR
The hopeless situation warriors face a new threat   three
DESTROYER ROBOTS rolling out in the corridor and opening
into battle stance.
 
Exterminate them.
Under fire, they fall back into;
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, ELEVATOR
The elevator doors close and our heroes seem to be safe.
However  
SECURITY ROBOT #1 (O.S.)
Let go of the weapon. I said that
let go of.
SECURITY ROBOT #2
Behind of the person do not push.
The hopeless situation warriors manage to destroy the
security battle robots in the elevator.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, HANGAR
R2 hides behind an airship because two SUPER BATTLE ROBOTS
enter the hangar.
SUPER ROBOT #1
Put the proceeding here over fight.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, ELEVATOR SHAFT
The elevator comes to a sudden halt.
9.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, ELEVATOR
The hopeless situation warriors exchange confused looks.
  
Do you let it stopped?
 
Have no, is you?
  
I have no.
 
Were perhaps stuck to.
  Gold begins to cut the elevator roof with his
lightsaber.
  
We must go out, we must be
everywhere in search of.
CUT TO   Hangar.
   (CONT'D, V.O.,
LOUDLY)
R2, telephone the steps is here.
 
(hearing
something)
Is that what things?
   (V.O., LOUDLY)
R2, telephone quickly...
R2 hides the telephone into one of its small compartment
boxes.
   (CONT'D, V.O.,
MUFFLED)
... the steps is here.
Super battle robot #2 begins to leave the airship and
inspect the source of the sound.
SUPER ROBOT #1
Come back, there what too have no.
Super battle robot #2 turns back to the airship.
   (V.O., MUFFLED)
R2, do you is fucking.
CUT TO   Elevator.
  Gold finishes cutting the roof and jumps out to the
elevator shaft.
10.
     
(to himself)
, I was old.
CUT TO   Hangar.
Despite the threat R2 comes back to the wall socket to
control the elevator.
   (CONT'D, V.O.,
MUFFLED)
R2.
R2 takes out the telephone.
   (CONT'D, V.O.,
LOUDLY)
R2.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
R2 accidentally makes the elevator move down very quickly.
  Gold jumps on an elevator door ledge while    Tile
remains in the elevator.
CUT TO   Elevator.
   Tile gets back to his feet and checks the elevator
monitor.
  
(to telephone)
Stop the bottom. Stop the bottom,
R2.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
Two SECURITY BATTLE ROBOTS find   Gold, who has grabbed
the elevator door's ledge.
SECURITY ROBOT #1
Raise the hand to, boy.
CUT TO   Hangar.
   (V.O.)
R2, did you hear me? R2, let
elevator risen. Is not a descent.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
R2 makes the elevator stop and    Tile falls back to the
floor.
CUT TO   Hangar.
The two super battle robots notice R2.
SUPER ROBOT #1
Hey, you!
11.
R2 panics a little.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
The elevator begins to rise again.
CUT TO   Elevator.
  
(to telephone)
Now, very good.
CUT TO   Hangar.
One of the robots grab R2.
 
Stupid robot.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
The elevator is speeding up towards   Gold.
SECURITY ROBOT #2
Very good.
  Gold hops onto elevator as it speeds by and crushes
the two careless security battle robots.
CUT TO   Elevator.
  jumps in.    reacts by pulling out his lightsaber.
  
, is you.
CUT TO   Hangar.
R2 fights the robots using his oil pump.
CUT TO   Elevator.
 
Is what is the row?
  
Always is a R2 to come to.
 
Do not take the elevator to do the
game.
  
Is all a disaster that R2 ask for.
 
Is you make the ghost.
  
I what did not to.
12.
CUT TO   Hangar.
R2 employs his rocket boosters in the battle and disables
the opposing robots.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, OBSERVATION CHAMBER
  Gold and    Tile find the man they are looking
for   MR. SPEAKER D THE SUPERIOR.
  
Speaker.
 
Does you is all good.
D
We are very good.
THE enters the room with two SUPER BATTLE ROBOTS.
  
Is a time that we cooperated.
 
I an individual beats not is all
right.
The jumps down the ledge and grabs his lightsaber.
D
You two careful, he is a big.
  
Mr. Speaker, we are for the big.
THE
Pull out your sword. Dedicate the
body for your Speaker.
  
You this time ran to do not Drop.
The warriors engage in battle.
THE
I always at wait for this day.
 
Even since the last time fights
with you hereafter my force has
promoted two times.
THE
Very good, give me surprised and
pleased.
The fight continues. The uses wish power to push    Tile
away. He and   Gold continue their duel while   
Tile destroys the two super battle robots.
13.
D
Good!
The grabs a hold of    Tile with wish power and kicks
  Gold away. He then throws    Tile against a ledge
and finally drops the ledge onto him.   attacks him.
THE
Even since you I separate I has
been hating you. You are a
sacrifice article that I cut up
rough now.
  Gold cuts The's hands off and take his lightsaber.
D
Very good, The    Is Prosperous,
very good.
(beat)
Killed him, now killed him.
Terrified The looks at Mr. Speaker D the Superior.
 
I can't.
D
Hurry.
After a moment of hesitation,   Gold executes The.
D   
You make out quite good. Make him
on the hoof very dangerous.
 
To, but he is not just a prisoner.
  Gold frees Mr. Speaker D the Superior from his bonds,
who then rises from his seat.
    
I should not kill him this not
agree with.
D
This very nature he hewed away your
hand. You also kill certainly he
revenge. The business of the
vengeance is very familiar.
Remember you to have ever tolded me
your mother's. Still there are
those pathetic people.
(begins to walk)
We must leave here now. Otherwise
they all at worry.
  Gold follows him, then stops to help    Tile.
14.
D   
(turns around)
Gold.
 
He big in nothing important in good
elephant.
D
Do not take care of him otherwise
and too late.
 
We can't throw down him.
CUT TO   Bridge.
 
Beat, we are great and black
influences.
The airship takes a heavy hit from a big enemy airship.
 
Give your runway!
CUT TO   Space.
The two huge airships engage in battle.
CUT TO   Observation chamber.
  Gold is carrying unconscious    Tile. He checks
the elevator controls.
 
The elevator was out of order.
CUT TO   Space.
Further shots are fired between the two huge airships.
CUT TO   Observation deck.
    
(to telephone)
R2, come 3224 elevators are here.
CUT TO   Hangar.
R2
(to telephone)
(beep)
He moves off-screen.
CUT TO   Space.
15.
An accurate hit immobilizes the  's airship,
which begins to fall towards the planet below. We see how
the fall affects passengers and crew on board   in hangar R2
begins to roll backwards, in observation deck   Gold
and Mr. Speaker D the Superior struggle to get into the
elevator shaft, elsewhere helpless robots fall into space
through impact hole.
CUT TO   Bridge.
 
Stabilize the airship.
PILOT ROBOT
Stabilize the airship.
CUT TO   Hangar.
Objects and R2 in the hangar begin to gain speed as the
airship turns vertically.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
  Gold and Mr. Speaker D the Superior manage to move
into the elevator shaft which is now horizontal. They begin
to run downwards as the airship keeps falling.
CUT TO   Bridge.
 
Stabilize the airship.
Pilot battle robots furiously work the controls.
CUT TO   Hangar.
R2 falls onto a pile of rubble.
CUT TO   Bridge.
 
Start all engines.
CUT TO   Space.
The plan works and the airship starts to regain its
horizontal position.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
The elevator shaft consequently turns vertical.   Gold
and Mr. Speaker D the Superior slide along the walls until
  Gold manages to grab onto some cables on the wall.
Mr. Speaker D the Superior grabs onto his legs, while still
unconscious    Tile is on his shoulders.
CUT TO   Space.
The airship now flies fully horizontally.
16.
CUT TO   Elevator shaft.
   Tile regains his consciousness. He immediately sees
the abyss and grabs   Gold in panic.
 
Relax, this circumstance we saw
many.
  
Slow, that is what?
They notice an elevator falling down above them.
 
(calm, to
telephone)
R2. R2, let elevator stopped.
  
A day after the fair jump quickly.
They jump down and enter an elevator door using grappling
hooks.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, LOWER DECK
     
See can also must not find out the
exit. The airship returns at fly.
 
R2, come down here.
CUT TO   Hangar.
R2's periscope appears from the pile of rubble. A moment
later R2 springs into view with its rocket boosters.
CUT TO   Bridge.
PILOT ROBOT
Superior, they have escaped a day
after the fair.
 
I should really feeds you all dog.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, CORRIDOR
Our heroes run until they get trapped in a force field.
 
Order patiently.
  
What is the row?
 
I said, toing have the patience.
17.
  
Good of, patience.
 
To, the R2 came right away in a
moment. Then can make we out.
     Down the corridor.
R2 is thrown into the corridor through a door.
     Force field.
    
Lo, all right.
     Down the corridor.
A number of enemy robots enter the corridor.
SUPER ROBOT
(to R2)
Raise the hand.
R2 zaps the super battle robot, which then kicks R2 down.
     Force field.
  
Do you have what to want to say.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, BRIDGE
The prisoners are brought to the bridge.
 
, liked too. Sir, you came finally.
I always at expect your come. This
is not the once successful
salvation activity, to.
  grabs the lightsabers handed to him by a
COMMAND BATTLE ROBOT.
COMMAND ROBOT
(quietly)
Welcome you.
 
Just hopeless situation warrior. I
think is what somebody intruded in
to come.
 
 , you and not equal to
I think severe.
 
(coughs)
Smelly boy.
18.
  
We still have the mission you do
not ask for the him.
R2
(beep)
 
Don't you ever think to discovers
here from I clues.
He puts the lightsabers to small pouches in his cape. There
are several other lightsabers too.
  
This time we have no this plan. The
this time your turn escaped.
 
R2.
R2 employs his full arsenal of gadgets to create confusion.
   Tile uses wish power to regain his lightsaber and
uses it to break himself and   Gold free.   Gold
similarly gets his lightsaber back.
 
(to his troops)
Batter to death them. Batter to
death them.
A close-quarter combat ensues in the bridge between
hopeless situation warriors and  's bodyguard
robots. Mr. Speaker D the Superior is dragged away by
security battle robots.
    
Batter to death them.
   Tile decapitates his opponent, but the robot still
keeps fighting.   Gold disables the other bodyguard
robot, then frees Mr. Speaker D the Superior. Finally   
Tile also manages to destroy the other bodyguard robot.
    
Leave he, run quickly.
Hopeless situation warriors destroy the remaining battle
robots in the bridge. They surround  , who has
grabbed a fallen battle staff.
    
Useless, Sir.
  strikes through the cockpit glass. Everyone
fights against the vacuum.
CUT TO   Space.
19.
Except for  , who gets sucked into space but
lands back to the ship using his grappling hook. He begins
to walk along the airship's surface.
CUT TO   Bridge.
The shattered cockpit windows are closed by security
shields.
INT.  'S AIRSHIP, UPPER DECK
  re-enters the airship through a roof hatch.
CUT TO   Bridge.
The remaining crew flees in panic as the hopeless situation
warriors finish their robot massacre.
CUT TO   Space.
Some cracks begin to appear on the airship's joints.
INT. FIRST AID AIRSH